<9992923>
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_Theft_Auto:_Vice_City_soundtrack>
<Rater 1: IN_EN * Wiki>
<Rater 2: IN_EN * Wiki>
<Rater 3: IN_EN * Wiki>
<Rater 4: IN_EN * Wiki>
<p> Most radio stations play a mixture of music, DJ chat , and spoof advertising , all of which are included on the CDs. The stations each reflect one style of music intended to evoke the atmosphere of the time.
<p> Summary: Hosted by Fernando Martinez (voiced by Frank Chavez [ 1 ] ) and features power ballads . An album of the songs from the station is available separately or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set, and is the only radio station with all of its songs on the official CD.
<p> An exaggerated stereotype of a Latin Lothario, Martinez believes he has a gift with the ladies and as a match-maker. With his first appearance, in Grand Theft Auto III , he is exposed as a non-Latin pimp from upstate New York during a radio interview in Chatterbox FM .
<p> Fernando claims he was eventually forced out of Vice City when he reappears in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas as a caller to and then impromptu host for the Lonely Hearts Show program on WCTR , before appearing as the owner of Fernando's New Beginnings (revealed to be a prostitution business, with Fernando as a pimp) in GTA III .
<p> Summary: Hosted by DJ Jose (voiced by Tony Chiroldes [ 1 ] ) and plays Caribbean-themed music, and Latin jazz . Espantoso, a radio station spoken entirely in Spanish , is the preferred station of the Cuban gang , as evidenced by the fact that Tommy often finds himself listening to it after carjacking cars that belong to them. It is also popular among taxi cab drivers. An album of the songs from the station is available separately [ citation needed ] or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set.
<p> Summary: Hosted by Oliver "Ladykiller" Biscuit (voiced by Julius Dyson [ 1 ] ) and plays post-disco, soul and R&B . Fever 105 is one of two preferred radio stations tuned in by the Haitian gang , which can be heard after the player carjacks their gang vehicles. The station is also the default radio station set when the player enters Lance Vance 's white Infernus sports car. An album of songs from the station is available separately or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set. By coincidence, Will Smith sampled The Whispers ' song "And The Beat Goes On" in his hit song " Miami " and Vice City is modeled after Miami, Florida .
<p> Summary: Hosted by Toni (voiced by Maria Chambers , [ 1 ] for the second time), and plays period pop music . Flash FM is also one of two preferred radio stations tuned in by both the Haitian gang and the Streetwannabes , heard after Tommy carjacks their gang vehicles. An album of songs from the station is available separately or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set.
<p> According to her chatter between songs, Toni is an excited, Valspeak -using party-girl who gets invited on tour buses and to backstage parties, notably to one with Love Fist . However, she expects to do something important with her life by the time she's 30 - an in-series joke, as she is still a radio DJ 15 years later, in Liberty City 's Flashback 95.6 . It is possible that Flash FM was renamed Flashback FM sometime in the early to mid 90's. However it is more likely that they are entirely different stations since they are based out of two different cities. As further reference to GTA III, Toni mentions that "I was dancing with my lighter and my hair went up like a Christmas tree." on Flash FM, an incident she has since forgotten in GTA III when she claims, "Luckily I've never been [on fire]... I've done a lot of crazy things, I can tell you that... but I've never been on fire... at least not to my knowledge.", and later on she mentions being asked by friends: "do you remember the 80s?"; to which she replies: 'well, I certainly don't remember anything else since then!"
<p> Flash FM is also the first station the player normally hears. During the first mission the player is asked to get into a car which is automatically tuned into Flash FM, playing "Billie Jean".
<p> Summary: Hosted by Lazlow, [ 1 ] who also scripted and produced many of the radio stations and commercials in the game, V-Rock features heavy metal music and hard rock . The station is preferred by Vice City's Biker gang , which is tuned in by default after the player hijacks their gang motorcycles. An album of the songs from the station is available separately or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set.
<p> It is interesting to note that on Grand Theft Auto III ' s Chatterbox FM chat show , which is set circa 2001, Lazlow claims that he hosts Chatterbox because he "got kicked off the rock station." A hidden track on the V-Rock CD hints at how Lazlow got fired. In Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas , which takes place in 1992, Lazlow interviews celebrities on a radio show called "Entertaining America" on the public talk radio station WCTR . He mentions that he is still getting over the 1980s and is having trouble adjusting to the 1990s. In Vice City Stories, set two years prior to Vice City, Lazlow is the co-host of V-Rock and constantly belittled by the DJ Couzin Ed, and at one point retorts "Well I'm going to broadcasting school next year. Then I'm gonna come back to Vice City and be a V-Rock DJ." (In GTAIII, Lazlow offhandedly claims that he has gone to broadcasting school, after being complemented on the show.) One of the call-ins in Vice City is in fact Couzin Ed, who is now driving a bus after Lazlow stole his job. Though not specifically mentioned, the firing is vaguely referenced in one of the image promos in the GTA4 station Integrity 2.0, where the voice says that people "keep giving him jobs".
<p> Summary: Hosted by Adam First, who is voiced by Jamie Canfield, [ 1 ] Wave 103 features New Wave and Synthpop music. Wave 103 is one of two preferred radio stations tuned in by the Streetwannabes , the other station being Flash FM. Wave 103 can be heard after Tommy carjacks their gang vehicles. An album of the songs from the station is available separately or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set. Customers received this volume when they placed a pre-order down payment of $10 on the PC version of the game at Best Buy . The name of the station apes that of an actual local radio station Wave 102 in Dundee , Scotland , the original birthplace of the game's design company Rockstar North. The name may also allude to the New Wave music on the station's playlist.
<p> Flash FM's "Japanese Boy" also appears on the European version of the Wave 103-CD album.
<p> Like most DJs in Vice City, Adam believes that his kind of music is the best, and fancies himself a music connoisseur. He also mentions that he likes money, is a big fan of hang gliding , despises music videos because they show that the artists' looks are more important than actual talent, and insists that his mother had "nothing to do" with his "personal choice" of going into radio.
<p> Adam makes a cameo appearance in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas as a caller to the conspiracy theory show Area 53 on WCTR . He says that while hang-gliding in the San Andreas desert (Bone County), he saw a man at a trailer compound performing strange rituals with a Domestabot. The show host Marvin Trill (who is later revealed to be the man that Adam saw) tells him to get a real hobby and hangs up.
<p> Summary: Hosted by famed DJ "Super Rocking" Mr. Magic , [ 1 ] who was an actual rap DJ during the 1980s, when the game takes place. The station plays hip hop and period electro music. An album of the songs from the station is available separately or as part of the Vice City soundtrack box set.
<p> Celebrity talk station hosted by Amy Sheckenhausen (voiced by Leyna Weber [ 1 ] ). Sheckenhausen is a ditzy girl with a cheery voice, who tends to gush over her famous guests while ignoring those she tends to find boring. She sometimes reads a book during interviews and forgets when there's a commercial playing. Of the nine radio stations in the game, KCHAT is one of the two stations not represented in the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City soundtrack.
<p> K-Chat runs "live" interviews with both local and national celebrities, along with listener call-in participation. During the broadcast played in the game, Amy talks with seven interviewees, some of whom appear elsewhere in the game.
<p> One of the characters that appears elsewhere in the game is Jezz Torrent, of the fictional band Love Fist . After this segment is an interview with professor and exaggerated feminist Michaela Carapadis ( Mary Birdsong ). She is over-obsessed with hating men and even dresses as one. She also discusses her recently published thesis, which describes an undercover experience on her study into the male psyche: cross-dressing so as to approach males and study their mentality. She is later insulted by a caller on air after being told that her work is totally nonsense and is nothing but a "load of crap" as she says. Following that is an interview with Pat "Mr. Zoo" Flannerdy, an anachronistic Steve Irwin parody with an unconventional love for animals.
<p> After Mr. Zoo is removed from the studio, Amy interviews a New Age priestess by the name of Gethsemanee Starhawk Moonmaker. During this interview, a caller makes lewd comments to Gethsemanee, asking her for punishment in a BDSM manner; this same caller calls Lazlow, the host on Chatterbox FM , the talk radio station in Grand Theft Auto III , asking to be spanked by a nanny. The next interviewee is BJ Smith , an aggressive and overzealous American football legend (voiced by real-life legend Lawrence Taylor ). Late in the game, Tommy Vercetti , through the player's choice, is able to buy a used car dealership from Smith. He also appears in commercials on other radio stations advertising his used car dealership and "B.J.'s Fit For Football" fitness courses.
<p> The final two interviewees appear in commercials on other radio stations in the game. The first is Claude Maginot, a classically trained actor who is ashamed at his recent forced career change, a successful audition for the part of the father in Just the Five of Us , a fictional sitcom with a ridiculous premise involving a "mix-up at the adoption agency" and "three zany new house guests". Both this sitcom and his unsuccessful interpretive dance performance, In the Future, There Will Be Robots , are advertised on other stations. Finally, Norse deity Thor (or a reincarnation, impersonator or channeler of him - it is not explained which in the game) appears to further explain and sell his series of self-help tapes, which give very ancient (and often violent) answers to common personal problems, such as decapitating one's girlfriend and parading her head on a stick as a declaration of love. He is critical of women, exampled in his treatment of the host - "Go and live in a chimney, ye troll!" and "Wench Amy" - and he is known to speak in the third person. Thor has a fan club in the city, who call themselves the Bloods . They invite Thor during his interview to pillage with them. The caller also calls in Chatterbox FM in Grand Theft Auto III complaining about the English and Soccer and in GTA 3 and this game he talks about "Freddie".
<p> Vice City Public Radio, abbreviated as VCPR , is hosted by Maurice Chavez (voiced by Philip Anthony Rodriguez ), with supervisors Jonathan Freeloader (Patrick Olsen [ 1 ] ) and Michelle Montanius (Kelly Guest [ 1 ] ). Along with KCHAT , the other talk radio station in the game, VCPR has not been released as part of the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City soundtrack.
<p> Chavez's name and voice suggest that he is of Cuban origin, and he becomes irritated when his name is pronounced incorrectly. In one edition of his program, he is held at gun-point by the power-crazed Pastor Richards, but he survives through quick thinking and flattery . Although normally calm, he loses his patience when his guests don't "press the issue," and even hits one of his guests, Jeremy Robard, with a paperweight .
<p> Chavez is oblivious to the fact he is commonly degraded by Jonathan Freeloader and Michelle Montanius, the announcers at VCPR who call him a "useless, talentless asshole". Over the course of several editions of the show, it is learned that Chavez made a living as "Sal, the Wheat-Free Clown " circa 1980, an occupation that earned him less than $2000 a year. Around the same time, he also tried to become a movie star, and despite going up for 17 auditions that year, he only got a job as a fluffer in a sex education video. He became so desperate that he even considered a sex change at one point. However, according to Vice City Stories, he was rescued by Montanius and in return he impregnated her. It is implied that she became part of the main VCPR crew not long after, and her pregnancy would account for her abrasive behavior to Chavez. It can also be implied that Chavez did not want people to know about his affair with Montanius, because he called her "Melissa" in one of commercial breaks.
<p> Freeloader is probably a reference to the website Freeloader.com , which at one point offered "light" versions of the Original GTA as well as Grand Theft Auto: London, 1969 (i.e. without in-game music), but later moved them to a paid subscription service. It currently offers Grand Theft Auto 2 as part of its free subscription service [1] , though full versions of both GTA and GTA2 are now offered as free downloads from Rockstar Classics.
<p> Much like KCHAT, VCPR features "live" interviews; unlike the celebrity interviews on KCHAT, however, the show broadcast on VCPR within the game is called Pressing Issues , and focuses on exactly that-particular issues are chosen, and Maurice Chavez mediates an informal debate between selected guests. Three such issues are broadcast within the game.
<p> Also on VCPR are the frequent donation drives by Michelle Montanius and Jonathan Freeloader, who beg for support money between shows (as VCPR is a public station, it relies on donations) and try to make the listener feel as guilty as possible about listening to, yet not supporting Public Radio. Obviously, this is a parody of actual public radio stations in the United States like NPR .
<p> The first debate on the station concerns public safety, particularly in the context of the rising tide of crime promoted in no small part by Tommy Vercetti , the game's protagonist. The three guests during this segment are:
<p> Congressman Alex Shrub (voiced by Chris Lucas [ 1 ] ), an extremely cocky right-wing politician who is also the youngest congressman elected by the city. He believes that the rich should be more accepted in America and the poor forgotten about. During the course of the debate he also reveals several embarrassing facts about host Maurice Chavez, along his with having an attractive girlfriend who is married to his best friend (a reference to Scarface ). Shrub also notes that an "idiot liberal" helped rescue him and launch his career in radio. In Vice City Stories it is revealed that this person is none other than Michelle Montanius. Shrub is noted for making many moves, such as giving tax breaks to the rich and cutting benefits to the poor.
<p> Social activist and extreme liberal Callum Crayshaw (Sean Modica [ 1 ] ) is a stereotypically concerned rich boy who wants to "help the poor" in completely unfeasible ways with an organization he formed called "Speaking for the Underdog," which is funded by a trust fund his father, a wealthy businessman who doesn't seem to care about the same issues, created for him. He often talks about his trips to other continents.
<p> The last panel member is secessionist and last-minute panel replacement (the previous guest was "carjacked and is now at home arming himself to the teeth," according to Chavez) John F. Hickory (L.J. Gansen [ 1 ] ), an extremely radical native Floridian (though it is revealed he only moved to Vice City recently) who believes that by digging a suitably large river, Florida can break free of the American mainland and finally put a stop to the people flooding in from the northern states.
<p> The second segment deals with issues of general morality. The three guests for this debate are:
<p> Firebrand Pastor Richards (David Green [ 1 ] ), a corrupt and wholly insane televangelist from Mars, Alabama, where he founded three colleges. He promises salvation to all who pay him very large donations by guaranteeing them a berth in a towering, radiation-proof spacecraft that takes the form of Richards himself. He later unintentionally reveals that he was actually planning on using the money to build himself a mansion in Hawaii . Richards also has five concubines
<p> Married activist Jen Brown (Maureen Silliman [ 1 ] ), an overstressed, overattentive mother who is cheated on (constantly) by her husband, though she vehemently denies it on one segment of the debate. A caller with similar thoughts appears on Chatterbox FM in GTA III , complaining to Lazlow how video games are a bad influence on her children.
<p> Naturist Barry Stark (Renaud Sebbane [ 1 ] ), a naturist and a pathological liar, with sexuality issues. He gets erections several times during the debate, and even tries to make out with Maurice. He also appeared as a caller on Chatterbox FM in Grand Theft Auto III , where he makes similar comments about nudity.
<p> During the interview, Pastor Richards complains that "[American] newspapers are owned by Canadians with an agenda". This could be a reference to the mockumentary The Canadian Conspiracy , which details how the Canadian government is subverting the United States by taking over its media, and came out in 1985, one year before the setting of the game.
<p> There is a perception amongst some gamers that Pastor Richards is a caricature either of former televangelist Jim Bakker or Pat Robertson . Rockstar Games has set up a toll-free telephone line that, when called, plays a recording of Pastor Richards discussing his "Salvation Statue." This plays off much of the left-over paranoia over the then-USSR. "You look out the window, and there are Russian paratroopers droppin' in to take over", he told the listeners on the radio show (this line, and the lines that follow immediately, are a direct reference to the eighties Russian-invasion movie Red Dawn ). His "Salvation Statue" is, as he puts it, a 50-story statue of himself complete with living quarters. If there are any disasters such as "nuclear holocausts, plagues of flying rodents", those who pay him can take refuge in his statue, which could deflect alpha, gamma and beta radiation, if Richards is correct. In addition, the blueprint for the statue was drawn up to include booster rockets. This is in case, as he says, "the poopie hits the proverbial fan, [they] can load up those who saved themselves through generous donations, blast into space, and colonize Saturn, with a race of morally correct, affluent people, ruled by [Richards]." Toward the end of the show, Richards reveals that he did, "use money from the statue to make my own palace in Hawaii", another reference to dishonest televangelists who trick people out of their money.
<p> Also, Chavez mentions "rock groups joining together to provide famine aid to Alaska with the song Do They Know It's The Fourth of July? " This is a reference to the famous Live Aid series of concerts and its hit single, " Do They Know It's Christmas? "
<p> By the end of this segment, Pastor Richards snaps, and, disgusted by Stark's nudism, pulls a gun on Stark and shoots him in the genitals, while Brown passes out. Barry survives and "is in need of a proctologist". Richards also ends up claiming the station as his own for a short while. The show then cuts away to Jonathan and Michelle under Maurice's excuse that "This is public radio. We need breaks to appeal for money, or cut away when people start brandishing guns in the studio! Like this!".
<p> This is the only episode on this loop that gets two separate station breaks during the show (the other two episodes only got one break each during the episodes).
<p> The final issue is that of perception and attitude. The three guests for this debate are exaggerated gothic artist Konstantinos Smith (voice artist credited as Konstantinos.com [ 1 ] ); positive thinker, motivational speaker and shyster Jeremy Robard (Peter Silvestro [ 1 ] ), who claims that his 3 step program called "Think Your Way To Success" has changed people's lives and made him very rich; and Jenny Louise Crab ( Mary Birdsong [ 1 ] ), a woman mentally scarred by the murder of her foster parents, but seemingly addicted to high strength mood elevators in an effort to block the memory, making her insanely hyperactive and scarily cheerful.
<p> Konstantinos is a parody of a stereotypical "goth". He tells Maurice things like, "The world is a lie, man. Only darkness is truth." He mentions that he had never been out in open sunlight in upwards of 18 years. Maurice calls him a "manically depressed loony with anemia." At times, however, Konstantinos comes across as the most practical and stable person on the show.
<p> During the show, Robard persistently tries to sell his motivational tape series. This series is advertised elsewhere on Vice City radio, and it's worth noting that the initials for each program spells out the name of a popular illegal drug : "Motivate, Demonstrate, then Motivate Again" spells out "MDMA", the scientific abbreviation for Ecstasy ; "Learn, Start Doing" spells out "LSD", the abbreviation for lysergic acid diethylamide ; "Think, Hold that thought, Complete" spells out "THC" the abbreviation for Tetrahydrocannabinol , the primary chemical in marijuana . Later in his dialogue he mentions, "And if you want to think really fast, try my crank-it-out program" (Crank is slang for Methamphetamine ). Another notable reference to drugs is when he tells Crab, "Sweetheart, I can get you something much better [than the antidepressant]," implying that he has connections to drugs somewhere. During the show, Chavez criticizes Robard's appearance, telling him that "you look like you sell drugs to people". Interestingly, Robard's self-help tapes are not his first entrepreneurial endeavor. In Vice City Stories he ran an "Import/Export" business where clients could lease a boat and ferry "special" cargo to and from an island base not too far from Vice City. Like the implied nature of his self-help tape business, his prior enterprise actually consisted of drug-running.
<p> Near the end of the show, Maurice eventually sees that Robard's program is worth nothing, that it hasn't gotten him anywhere, that he is not a rich successful businessman, that he hasn't changed anyone's lives, and that he is nothing but a poor desperate fraud. He notes that whatever the three discuss in the debate, Robard has covered this topic in one of his "tapes". After an exchange of insults, which includes Robard telling Konstantinos to put a hex on Maurice, Maurice loses his temper and breaks Jeremy's nose with a 'heavy paperweight' on the air. Robard then threatens to sue, but is quickly cowed when Maurice threatens further violence. Maurice then mentions that he feels great about himself.
<p> All the radio stations feature commercial breaks. Some advertised products are related to the game, while others link to segments in the radio shows or are just parodies of products of the time period.
<p> Ammu-Nation . The chain of gun retailers in the GTA series of games. One of the commercials treats the popular movie Red Dawn as a documentary.
<p> BJ Smith 's Used Autos . The business is one of the many that can be purchased by Tommy, and is originally called Sunshine Autos.
<p> The Maibatsu Thunder sports car (Ed McMann & Shelley Miller) - Its ingame equivalent is considered to be the Blista Compact (resembles a Honda CR-X ). In GTA III , the Maibatsu company has another car, this time an SUV called the Maibatsu Monstrosity, roughly the equivalent of the Landstalker. Liberty City Stories also contains a vehicle called Maibatsu Womb . In VCS, there's a campaign fighting for buying American goods instead of foreign ones (a Maibatsu worker is also included in the VCS commercial), laughing at American Motors employees. This commercial is a parody of the 1980s "We Build Excitement" Pontiac ads.
<p> The commercials mentioned on the radio stations are:
<p> Jeremy Robard's "Think Your Way To Success" program (Peter Silvestro, Doris Harrison, Adam Davidson), which he shamelessly plugs during his interview on VCPR (1-866-434-SELF). In VCS he advertises his import/export (drug business) on the radio via commercials.
<p> The Degenatron (Chris Ferrante, Laura Paterson, Ron Reeve, James Ferrante & Mike Ferrante) - A parody of early home video game consoles. During her appearance on Pressing Issues, Jan Brown blames her kids' problems on Degenatron, calling it "Degeneratron", and a "crock of shit". The console is also mentioned on VCPR as a sponsor of an upcoming celebration of Proust 's influence on Vice City.
<p> BJ Smith's "Fit for Football" Program - Mentioned during his interview on KCHAT.
<p> "Knife after Dark" (Chris Ferrante, Gerald Cosgrove & Jeff Berlin) - A send-up of the early 80's style slasher film . On Pressing Issues, Jan Brown mentions that she won't let her kids watch the movie. It is stated as being "Rated R for Retarded". Vice City Stories has a movie very similar to this one, Twilight Knife .
<p> D'Leo and Thurax - A high priced and less-than-moral law firm (1-866-9SHADEE). The firm funds the show "Legal Review", one of the unheard shows on VCPR.
<p> Giggle Cream - A dessert topping implied to contain a mood-altering drug. A reference to aerosol whipped cream canisters, which contain Nitrous oxide (laughing gas) as a propellant. Maurice accuses Congressman Shrub of having approved its sale, despite it having lethal side effects. Shrub responded that most of the victims probably deserved to die anyway. This dessert is also mentioned on the police scanner when an officer reports a situation on Ocean Beach is handled ( "I gave them a beating, nothing too serious" ), and one of the NPCs' lines is "Easy on the Giggle Cream!"
<p> "Just the Five of Us" (Kevin Straley, John Mauceri , Josh Clark, Jene Hillgreen, Shelley Miller) - A parody of such 80's mismatched family sitcoms like Diff'rent Strokes . Classically trained actor Claude Maginot is slumming as the father of the family, and is one of the guests on K-Chat, host Amy Sheckenhausen a fan of the series. A drunken Jimmy, child-star of the show is interviewed by WCTR in GTA: San Andreas, the show "My Five Uncles" having replacing "Just the Five of Us". The show airs Friday Nights on VBS.
<p> "In the Future, There Will be Robots" - An interpretive dance performance at the Vice city Art Center featuring two men dancing for a robot's love, futuristic lasers and a dehydrating manatee. It is produced by and stars Claude Maginot, who unsuccessfully tries to direct his interview towards instead of TV work.
<p> Sissy Spritz (Brian Thomas) - A hair-care product, is mentioned by the hosts of V-Rock, Flash FM and KCHAT.
<p> Musty Pines - A retirement home where old people enjoy themselves until their death. Toni relates that someone rang Flash FM confusing it for Musty Pines. It guarantees that the retirees will "move on to something better, guaranteed in three months or less" and advertises a weekly medication lottery. Drivers in the game will also sometimes shout "Get back to Musty Pines!" in response to bad or slow driving.
<p> "Yuppie and the Alien" (Pete Gustin, Randy Hole, Richard Kruger, Lazlow) - A police drama on VBC. A parody poking fun at both 80s police drama series Miami Vice and friendly alien comedy series ALF . The show is possibly also a reference to the movie and/or series Alien Nation , although it is probably also an allusion to the fantastical "do-gooder" shows of the eighties in general (e.g.: Automan , Manimal , Knight Rider , The Powers of Matthew Star , et al.). Mr. Magic mentions this show on Wildstyle. Its predecessor is Angel and the Knight aired in 1984 (probably cancelled after protests because of incidents involving helicopters, which people thought could dive underwater as depicted on the show).
<p> The stand-alone commercials include:
<p> The Domestobot - A domestic aid robot designed to help people around the house. The Domestobot plays further roles in the proceeding GTA games. It appears to be based on Omnibot toy robot.
<p> Exploder: Evacuator Part II - A high-action film in the vein of Rambo and Commando , and starring Jack Howitzer. VCS has the predecessor of E:EP II: It's called simply Evacuator , featuring also Jack Howitzer. The movie is stated (like Knife After Dark is as "R for Retarded) as "PG: May include Patriotic Garbage".
<p> Exploder Survival Knife - A large survival knife such as type used Rambo, released as part of the merchandising campaign for the Exploder movie series.
<p> Shady Acres - A high-class complex for rich and divorced men to live up in style. Shady Acres is another of the pieces of real estate owned by Avery Carrington who also voices the commercial.
<p> Farewell Ranch - A cowboy ranch where old people work hard from dawn to dusk. Possibly Located outside Vice City .
<p> Complete the Look (Greg Schweizer & Shelley Miller; seven commercials) - A trendy clothing store, each station has a different version of the commercial, targeting an 80's fashion style/stereotype best linked to the genre of the station. In 1984 you can purchase a V-Rock bumper sticker at Complete the Look stores.
<p> Synth and Son (Alex Anthony) - An Electronic keyboard / Synthesizer store. Parodies the aggressive, somewhat overboard use of the instruments in the 80's. In 1984 you can purchase a V-Rock bumper sticker at Synth & Son stores. Also mentioned by that time by Wave 103 DJ Adam First ("...certainly my favorite place to buy electronic instruments")
<p> DJ Adam First calls in to WCTR saying he saw a man at a trailer compound performing strange rituals with a Domestabot. Adam says he saw all this while hang-gliding in the desert.
<p> A Domestabot allegedly programmed for evil, 632369439, calls into Area 53 on WCTR saying "We know what you are doing to my Domestabot brothers and sisters" before being cut off by the host.
<p> Jack Howitzer is interviewed on WCTR , only to shoot the host with a gun he thought wasn't even loaded. He is later convicted of murder according to WCTR news.
<p> The Domestabot and Musty Pines (presenter of "Breathing World") also make brief cameos on Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories . Finally, the player will actually get to control a Domestobot during a mission in Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories titled, "Domo Arigato Domestoboto", making it the first product advertised on radio - not counting stores - to be used during a gameplay mission.
