<0581754>
<http://www.amazon.co.uk/Global-Jihad-Future-Militant-Islam/dp/0978714121>
<Rater 1: IP_DS * RC * N * ID: A2CE2OFG78G12Z>
<Rater 2: IP_DS * RC * N * ID: A9IGTAK087DB9>
<Rater 3: IP_DS * RC * N * ID: AD0EHH6TG0KF0>
<Rater 4: IP_DS * RC * N * ID: AIQU5HARE60W1>

<p> Important: Your credit card will NOT be charged when you start your free trial or if you cancel during the trial period. If you're happy with Amazon Prime, do nothing. At the end of the free trial, your membership will automatically upgrade to a full year for 49.
<p> Trade in Global Jihad: The Future in the Face of Militant Islam for an Amazon.co.uk gift card of up to 0.25 , which you can then spend on millions of items across the site. Trade-in values may vary ( terms apply ). Learn more Learn more .
<h> Book Description
<p> Publication Date: 1 Oct 2007
<p> In Global Jihad, Dr Patrick Sookhdeo takes an in-depth look at the teachings of Islam, past and present, which form the driving force for Islamic terrorism. Drawing on a wide range of sources, including many Muslim writers, he examines the facets of the Islamic faith which motivate so many men and women of violence. He suggests a number of practical responses which can be adopted by non-Muslims to counter the violence, strategies for winning the long war against Islamic violence. This book is aimed primarily at decision-makers in politics, security, intelligence and the military, but will be of interest to any reader who seeks to understand Islamic violence in the world today.
<p> In Global Jihad, Dr Patrick Sookhdeo takes an in-depth look at the teachings of Islam, past and present, which form the driving force for Islamic terrorism. Drawing on a wide range of sources, including many Muslim writers, he examines the facets of the Islamic faith which motivate so many men and women of violence. He suggests a number of practical responses which can be adopted by non-Muslims to counter the violence, strategies for winning the long war against Islamic violence. This book is aimed primarily at decision-makers in politics, security, intelligence and the military, but will be of interest to any reader who seeks to understand Islamic violence in the world today.
<h> Special Offers and Product Promotions
<p> Buy any product sold by Amazon.co.uk excluding any Kindle Device and e-books and we will add a 10 promotional gift certificate to your account to spend on selected Amazon fashion. Here's how (terms and conditions apply)
<p> {"itemData":[{"priceBreaksMAP":null,"buy\\... to Basket","Add both to Basket","Add all three to Cart"],"showDetailsDefault":"Show availability and delivery details","shippingError":"An error occurred, please try again","hideDetailsDefault":"Hide availability and delivery details","priceLabel":["Price:","Price For Both:","Price For All Three:"],"preorder":["Pre-order this item","Pre-order both items","Pre-order all three items"]}}
<h> Product Description
<h> Review
<p> This book is long overdue. Patrick Sookhdeo has put together a stunning in-depth analysis of perhaps the greatest threat facing the Western World today. I strongly commend it to anyone attempting to understand the issues surrounding global jihad, particularly policy makers and those charged with executing the responses required. Our current campaign plans lack both clarity and understanding - this book provides both, and all those engaged in the formulation of future plans should read what he has to say very carefully indeed - their efforts will be well rewarded. -Major General (retired) Tim Cross CBE, Army Adviser to the House of Commons Defence Committee. After every atrocity carried out by Muslim jihadists against the West, we ask the dismal question 'Why do they hate us so much?'. Patrick Sookhdeo's book explains exactly why, and what we can do about it -General (retired) Sir Hugh Beach GBE, KCB, MC. Tactics without strategy, warned Sun Tzu, is the noise before defeat. Patrick Sookhdeo's book tells us much about our opponents' strategy. We would do well to understand it, to recognise its attraction and its force, and to meet it with a strategy of our own. We will have no excuse for saying that we were not warned. -Professor Richard Holmes, Professor of Military and Security Studies at Cranfield University --Professor Richard Holmes, Professor of Military and Security Studies at Cranfield University
<p> After every atrocity carried out by Muslim jihadists against the West, we ask the dismal question 'Why do they hate us so much?'. Patrick Sookhdeo's book explains exactly why, and what we can do about it. --General (retired) Sir Hugh Beach GBE, KCB, MC
<p> Tactics without strategy, warned Sun Tzu, is the noise before defeat. Patrick Sookhdeo's book tells us much about our opponents' strategy. We would do well to understand it, to recognise its attraction and its force, and to meet it with a strategy of our own. We will have no excuse for saying that we were not warned. --Professor Richard Holmes, Professor of Military and Security Studies at Cranfield University
<h> About the Author
<p> Canon Patrick Sookhdeo, Ph.D. D.D. is the Director of the Institute for the Study of Islam and Christianity, which conducts research into Islamic movements and trends in contemporary Islam, especially radical Islam and terrorism. International Director of the Barnabas Fund, a relief and development agency channeling practical help and support to Christian minorities. Author, lecturer, advisor and consultant on issues of war, conflict and society. Visiting Fellow at Cranfield University UK. Senior Visiting Fellow at the Defence Academy,UK. Fellow of the Security Institute UK. EDUCATION * Ph.D. from London University, School of Oriental and African Studies. * D.D. by Western Seminary, Oregon, USA, validated by University of Oregon, for work on Pluralism. * D.D. by Nashotah House, Wisconsin, USA.(Anglican Episcopal) for work on human rights and religious freedom AWARDS * 2001 Coventry Cathedral International Prize for Peace and Reconciliation. * Spring 1990 Templeton UK project trust prize for progress in religion for his caring evangelistic ministry in the east end of London.
<p> This book is aimed at politicians and the military to show the aggressive nature of Islam. The author's contention is that classical Islam is inherently a religion which must dominate the whole world and it will do so by jihad. He shows that violence has characterised Islam ever since Mohammed was in Medina. He paints a disturbing picture as he analyses Islam ancient and modern. The main hope for a peaceful future he believe lies in encouraging moderate elements to reform their religion but the problem here is that by Islamic standards, it is wanting the bad guys, the compromisers with liberal democracy, to take the lead in reformation. The history of jihad is horrible in terms of the slaughter involved. Even more disturbing is the doctrine of taqiyya, dissimulation, where the end, promoting Islam, justifies the means, deceiving non-Muslims. He shows how Muslims often have one message for their own and another for outsiders. One can but conclude that the only Muslim testimony to be trusted is the one from your Muslim friend whose veracity is established. This book is a warning call to the West that it is under threat from islam ideologically and demographically. it is a stern wake up call. It shows the religion of peace only brings peace a peace when you submit to Allah. There is clear and present danger. It includes the nuclear ambitions of Iran as well as popular support for terrorism. The author is involved in Christian misssion though his book is silent on the Christian hope that transformation comes when Muslims see the way of Christ, not that of Mohammed is the only true way to know God.
<p> This closely referenced and detailed review of the roots of Islamic terrorism should be required reading for all those concerned with government and the maintenance of law and order. Dr Sookhdeo, an established authority on Islamic jihad, uses predominantly Islamic sources to review the theological basis that underpins al-Qaeda and similar groups. His analysis of the future and possible means of combating this global threat is chilling in its challenge as to how moderate, reforming Moslems can be supported and encouraged.
<p> Patrick Sookhdeo is well aware of the global terror campaign. But he is also aware that there is much more to this struggle than just suicide bombers. There are theological, political, moral and ideological issues as well. Thus this book is not entitled "Global Terror," for that would give a misleading impression of what this battle is really all about. Terrorism is simply one facet of a multi-lateral approach to achieving Islamic supremacy around the world.
<p> Sookhdeo is eminently qualified to speak on this subject. Indeed, he was born into a Muslim household in South America (although now he is a Christian residing in London). He has spent his life studying Islam and the jihadists. He is more than familiar with Islamic history, theology, culture and practice.
<p> In this substantial volume of nearly 700 pages, Sookhdeo examines how the global Islamic challenge is being manifest, and how it can be withstood. He looks primarily at the theology and beliefs of Islam, and argues that only a major reform of Islam itself can really turn things around.
<p> While many are happy to believe that "Islam is peace," the truth lies elsewhere. In fact, the radical Islamists are not some aberration to Islamic belief and practice, but are really an integral part of it. Many people nonetheless want to distinguish between Islamist terrorism and Islamic terrorism.
<p> "However this is really a meaningless distinction," says Sookhdeo. "Islamism is simply the essence of classical Islam, and violence and terror are found within both of them." Although the major sources of Islam provide the inspiration for terror, that does not mean that all Muslims are terrorists. Most Muslims in fact reject the jihadists.
<p> But if Islamist violence can be justified by, and found within, the main Islamic sources (the Koran, the hadith, the life and teachings of Muhammad, etc.), then only a major reform of Islam, and a new reinterpretation of it, can help to curb the violence.
<p> Thus the war on terror is really just a small part of a much larger war, that is, the 1400-year-long war of Islamic expansionism. The pursuit of Islamic power and hegemony is what jihad is all about. The struggle for Islam includes not just violent military means, but all manner of other means as well.
<p> Islam understands jihad to be a permanent struggle, one which will continue until all of Allah's enemies are subsumed and sharia rules the earth. Until then, there can be no real peace. Sure, temporary peace can be negotiated when Islam is not in a position to achieve complete dominance. But whenever Islam becomes the ruling ideology of a country, then all non-Muslims must submit, or endure dhimmitude.
<p> Dhimmis must submit to the demeaning regulations of Islam, including payment of the jizya (poll tax). Persecution of non-Muslims in Muslim lands is an ever-present reality, and more Christians are being killed today in Islamic lands than anywhere else. And many moderate Muslims are being killed by the Islamists as well.
<p> Sookhdeo here offers extensive documentation and explanation of Islamic jihadist thought and practice. Countless Muslim thinkers, jurists, Imams, commentators and strategists are quoted here. He clearly makes the case that the ideology and aims of jihad are contained in the very heart and soul of Islam.
<p> Meaty chapters explore various issues, such as the life and history of Muhammad; the nature of the Koran, the hadith and sharia; the Islamic understanding of peace; the theology of war and empire-building; and responses to Islamic terrorism.
<p> Consider one chapter, on taqiyya. This is the Arabic term for deception or dissimulation. It has long been held by leading Muslim authorities that Muslims have a right to practice deception with non-Muslims if there is a conflict between faith and expediency.
<p> This practice has especially served well Muslim apologists and evangelists who want to convince gullible Westerners that Islam is really a religion of peace. It is a regular practice of those who "expend much energy to convince non-Muslims that Islam is and has always been peaceful and tolerant". This puts non-Muslims off guard, and prepares them for eventual Muslim rule and domination.
<p> Sookhdeo has penned a number of previous works on Islam, but this is his magnum opus, at least for now. It is a gold mine of information, facts and figures on what is one of the greatest threats facing the free West today. It is only because of ignorance about the contents of this book - and others like it - that we are in such a predicament today.
<p> We can no longer remain unaware about the threat that we face. Ignorance can no longer be an excuse. We must arm ourselves with truth, and with information. We must be aware of the Islamist enemy. As Sookhdeo says, "Ultimately to gain victory over the Islamists will require the exercise of the will and a right understanding of the situation."
<p> This volume certainly provides all the necessary information for understanding the nature of the war we are in. Whether we have the will and the guts to stay in the battle and see it thought to the end is another matter altogether. But Sookhdeo's volume is a must read for everyone - Muslim and non-Muslim alike.

