<0442277>
<http://www.amazon.com/The-Center-Cyclone-Autobiography-Inner/dp/051752760X>
<Rater 1: IP_DS * RC * N * ID: A1QCQE5XW37LN1>
<Rater 2: IP_DS * RC * N * ID: A22LJFUCFXZKZS>
<Rater 3: IP_DS * RC * Y * ID: A13E3C65NKK51I>
<Rater 4: IP_DS *  * Y * ID: A1BSOOHNHX51RI>

<h> Book Description
<p> Release Date: March 20, 1985
<p> In this new-age classic of scientific research, Dr. John C. Lilly shares his ground-breaking theory of the interaction between the mind and the brain. Using his personal experiments in solitude, isolation, and confinement, he combines these states with LSD, mysticism, and other catalysts to gain a new understanding into the inner spaces of the human consciousness. Dr. Lilly details his experiments in researching the far-out spaces and demonstrates how he programs such spaces and experiences through his method of self-metaprogramming. Dr. Lilly explains: "In the province of the mind, what is believed to be true is true of becomes true, within limits to be found experientially or experimentally. These limits are further beliefs to be transcended. In the province of the mind, there are no limits." Displaying a frankness that is refreshingly objective, The Center of the Cyclone offers a rational scientific explanation of how the mind works in those special states of consciousness. --- from book's dustjacket
<p> In this new-age classic of scientific research, Dr. John C. Lilly shares his ground-breaking theory of the interaction between the mind and the brain. Using his personal experiments in solitude, isolation, and confinement, he combines these states with LSD, mysticism, and other catalysts to gain a new understanding into the inner spaces of the human consciousness. Dr. Lilly details his experiments in researching the far-out spaces and demonstrates how he programs such spaces and experiences through his method of self-metaprogramming. Dr. Lilly explains: "In the province of the mind, what is believed to be true is true of becomes true, within limits to be found experientially or experimentally. These limits are further beliefs to be transcended. In the province of the mind, there are no limits." Displaying a frankness that is refreshingly objective, The Center of the Cyclone offers a rational scientific explanation of how the mind works in those special states of consciousness. --- from book's dustjacket
<p> An autobiography of Inner Space is indeed what is happening here. Dolphin researcher turned consciousness explorer reaches heights that Timothy Leary so much admired about him. The book journeys from his youth to his research days at the dolphin labs and his scientific and personal discoveries and relays them to the reader in such humbleness that one cant help but to empathize and rejoice in his discoveries. Once his dolphin research was abolished, he took it upon himself to turn to neurology and neurological drugs, i.e. LSD-25, or as they called it "Pure Sandoz." It is here where his naieve approach to drugs really comes out in his writing, as he was not afraid of them, but also had never tried them (LSD in particular). Lilly read everrything he could on LSD before trying it (study before trial, similar to magic and all forms of initiation. Today with psychedelic drugs illegalized almost everywhere in the world (a conspiracy if you ask me), Lilly never condones this method (drugs) to attain self knowledge. Lilly in his deep moments of self reflection and depression understood that it could be achieved through other means without drugs. From here, is where he finalizes his journey. A marvelous book, unfortunately now its out of print, however, if you should find a copy, it would be worth your while to pick it up. I am also assuming you are somewhat familiar with John Lilly, either through Professor Leary or Robert Anton Wilson, in which it will not be a waste of a purchase.
<p> Through the course of this book, Dr. Lilly describes and explains his experiences, with and without drugs, which led to the formulation of the statement which is it's core: "In the province of the mind, what one believes to be true either is true or becomes true within limits to be found experimentally and experientially. These beliefs are limits to be transcended." One creates one's own truth and may or may not subject it to tests which may or may not confirm it, so that even one's objectivity is subjective. Awareness of this constant state of things allows one to observe one's own behavior, as well as that of others, with greater empathy and understanding of the process by which one chooses to believe
<p> This is Lilly's map of inner space explored during his famous LSD experiments in the sensory deprivation isolation tank that he invented. He gives detailed descriptions of various levels of consciousness on a scale including both positive and negative states. The Hollywood movie Altered States, directed by Ken Russell and starring William Hurt, was based on this book.

