<0017514>
<http://www.andrerieu.com/en/webshop/dvds>
<Rater 1: IP_DS *  * N * ID: A13JQIAK0MAF3B>
<Rater 2: IP_DS *  * N * ID: A1P7QDWY4U2H6O>
<Rater 3: IP_DS *  * N * ID: A2M5VW97GIYLHB>
<Rater 4: IP_DS *  * N * ID: A31NM1MBTECA53>

<h> Webshop
<h> DVDs
<p> Home for Christmas With the holiday season rapidly approaching Andr Rieu invites you to a festive Christmas concert at his house with his new DVD/Blu-ray release "Home For Christmas". Rieu's romantic celebration of Christmas is just what you need to get into the holiday spirit.
<p> The "Home For Christmas" program is recorded primarily at Andr's home, a romantic medieval castle in the Dutch town of Maastricht. Together with his Johann Strauss Orchestra, soloists and choir, Andr Rieu performs 26 holiday classics in his snowy, beautiful decorated garden and Saint Pieter Church across the street from his home. In front of his fireplace Rieu tells a Christmas tale and explains the viewer how he celebrates Christmas with his loved ones.
<p> "I would never be away from my family around the holidays -- especially now since I can enjoy the glowing faces of my grandchildren and their excitement when they see the Christmas tree and the gifts waiting underneath. I travel around the world for the whole year working hard to bring music and joy to my audiences and fans but I am always home for Christmas."
<p> "Home For Christmas" includes special guest performances by The Royal Choir Society Mastreechter Staar, The Sjamaes Children's Choir and 10 year old ballerina Rosa. The repertoire ranges from traditional Christmas classics to emotional ballads.
<p> "With "Home For Christmas" I not only want to share my personal thoughts about this special time of the year, but also my very own selection of the world's most beautiful Christmas classics. From the sacral Silent Night and Ave Maria to beloved classics like "White Christmas" and "Go Tell It On The Mountain" this product is a celebration of life, peace and music."
<p> "Home For Christmas" is just what you need to get into the holiday spirit; Two hours of beautiful songs and stories on the DVD and Blue-ray are guaranteed to warm your heart on cold winter days.
<p> Under The Stars: Live In Maastricht V Fall in love again with Andr Rieu and his Johann Strauss Orchestra as they bring you a colourful concert with over two-hours of beautiful melodies under the star-studded summer skies. Once again Andr Rieu transformed the Vrijthof square in his hometown Maastricht into a grand, romantic open-air concert hall with room for about ten thousand people for his traditional summer evening concerts. Andr returns to Maastricht bringing with him two wonderful guest choirs -- the Harlem Gospel Choir and the Soweto Gospel Choir -- and a very special guest: Oscar-winning actor Sir Anthony Hopkins! The Hollywood-based star is a great admirer of Andr Rieu and wrote a piece called "And The Waltz Goes On" specially with Rieu in mind. Andr Rieu performed it in Maastricht for the first time for such a large crowd. One of the stunning spectacles of the night is soprano soloist Mirusia Louwerse performing Mary Poppins' "Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious" and flying through the air, high above the wonder-struck audience. "Under The Stars" contains 24 tracks and guest appearances by the South African Soweto Gospel Choir, The Harlem Gospel Choir, the St. Petersburg trio, local act 'Ziesjoem', Rieu's sopranos Mirusia Louwerse, Kimmy Skota and the Platin tenors in a romantic summer evening setting. From spirituals to musicals, and folk songs to waltzes; this is a glorious and thrilling celebration of music!
<p> Fiesta Mexicana Join Andr on his global adventures as he finally recovers from illness to delight fans all over the world. Taking in the magnificent surroundings of Africa, Mexico and the sub-tropical Flower Island of Mainau in Germany, this emotional and exciting journey fully captures the enduring magic of The King of the Waltz. Tracks include Mexican Hat Dance, Hava Nagila, La Paloma, Cielito Lindo and many more!
<p> And the Waltz goes on Once again a fantastic DVD from Andr Rieu: two-and-a-half hours of heart-warming music and fabulous photography, all recorded in Vienna, musical capital of the world. Gorgeous Viennese waltzes, songs and marches, famous Viennese operettas, dances, beautiful costumes, the Johann Strauss Orchestra enjoying skating by the Vienna Town Hall (to the strains of a Viennese waltz of course) the golden coach with six white horses... and of course Andr in his starring role as conductor, violinist and entertainer. In short, you will hardly be able to take in so much beauty all at once! But luckily you can put a DVD on and enjoy it again and again. Together with Andr you can ride through the city in a horse-drawn 'fiacre' past all the famous palaces and monuments, and with him at your side you can enjoy all the beautiful experiences Vienna has to offer. Not least the lovely Viennese music of course. These are just a few of the musical highlights: Frhlingsstimmen Walzer, Wiener Blut, An der schnen blauen Donau, Gr mir mein Wien, Wien bleibt Wien, Komm mit nach Varasdin, Heut' ist der schnste Tag in meinem Leben, Ballade pour Adeline... The DVD stars: the Johann Strauss Orchestra, the Platinum Tenors, the sopranos Mirusia Louwerse and Kimmy Skota, the Vienna Debutantes and the lovely Viennese actress Barbara Wussow. She and Andr will take you behind the scenes where you can see how he produced the replica of the famous Schnbrunn Palace. A complete surprise for Andr is the moment when he comes unsuspecting into the Marble Hall of the fabulous Belvedre Castle and is presented with the Gold Medal of Honour in recognition of his role as a true ambassador of Viennese music to the whole world. Andr is visibly moved and expresses his thanks by playing a new waltz that he has composed specially for his fans all over the world: the 'Wiener Festwalzer', a wonderful festive waltz with everything a Viennese waltz should have: allure, joy, elegance, intimacy and romance. The absolute high point of this new DVD has to be the world premire of the waltz by Sir Anthony Hopkins 'And the Waltz goes on'. Sir Anthony is deeply moved when Andr, his great hero, plays this beautiful piece. Don't miss this unique performance!
<p> Lovesongs (NTSC) If you would like to surprise the one you love with a really special DVD, you're bound to succeed with 'Love Songs'. Andr has personally put together this DVD for all those special moments in your life, from the most beautiful love songs from all of his specials. Piece after piece, they are all wonderful, romantic melodies played by Andr and his orchestra. We feel sure that your love will be delighted, but of course it's even more romantic to watch it and enjoy it together! And what's to stop you treating yourself for once, with a wonderful romantic hour just for you, dreaming that Andr is playing his 'Love Songs' for you and you alone?
<p> Andr Rieu Live in Maastricht 4, A Midsummer Night's Dream (NTSC) After a successful South African tour in 2010, the Vrijthof concerts were all about Africa that year. Andr invited the South African soloists from the tour to take part in this summer's Vrijthof concerts: the fantastic young soprano Kimmy Skota from Cape Town, the Bloemfontein Children's Choir and the children from the Hout Bay Music Project provided a real South African atmosphere. This fabulous summer evening concert also featured the sopranos Mirusia Louwerse and Carmen Monarcha, the Platinum Tenors and the Berlin Comedian Harmonists. The evening has an upbeat end with a guest appearance from DJ tzi. This is a truly fantastic concert that you really can't miss!
<p> My African Dream From Andr's performances in the presence of Queen Elizabeth and Queen Beatrix, to his Cape Town rehearsals with South African children bubbling over with enthusiasm... this double DVD is full of surprises for every Andr Rieu fan! On one DVD you get to see the preparations for his impressive tour through South Africa, the promotion visit to Cape Town and the filming on Table Mountain, interspersed with rehearsals in his studio in Maastricht. The other DVD is a report of the very special concert in Cape Town, where the public was deeply moved by Andr's appearance with the fabulous black soprano Kimmy Skota and the South African children. 'My African Dream' is a unique opportunity to accompany Andr on his journey to South Africa and live his dream with him.
<p> Andr Rieu Live In Australia (NTSC) ANDRE Rieu came, saw and conquered the hearts of Melbourne He has made history. His concert at Melbourne's Telstra Dome on Saturday, 15 November, a record audience of 38,605, made it the biggest attendance of any Rieu show anywhere in the world. That it happened in Australia, the country that has so taken him to heart, pleases him endlessly. "It was an overwhelming experience. The warmth of the audience was overpowering." A giant, life-size reproduction of Vienna's cream and orange Schonbrunn Castle dominated the eastern end of the Dome. Giant candelabras flickered over the heads of Rieu and his Johann Strauss orchestra and chorus. Andr Rieu billed his show as "a romantic Viennese night" and it was all of this and more. Dancers twirled on two 600m ice rinks and from palace balconies and in a ballroom scene. Fountains cascaded and splashed around classical sculptures on either end of the huge stage.
<p> Andr Rieu Live In Maastricht II (NTSC) Andr is home again! Back in his home town of Maastricht in time for the traditional summer evening concert on the Vrijthof. Once again the famous square has been transformed into a fabulous open-air temple to music. And this new live DVD will allow you to experience Andr Rieu at his best. It features the Johann Strauss Orchestra, 100 children from the music school, the Platinum Tenors, Mirusia, Carmen and Suzan and the 13-year-old musical talent Melissa Venema on the trumpet. A real high point is the performance with the world-famous Mastreechter Staar male voice choir. And the spectacular appearance of 150 choir members holding torches was a musical and visual delight that you simply cannot miss. So enjoy this fabulous summer evening concert on our new live DVD: Andr Rieu -- live in Maastricht 2.
<p> Dancing through the skies (NTSC) A better party atmosphere than this you cannot imagine! A concert with Andr Rieu which is also a wedding party, and which takes place in one of the most beautiful opera houses in the world, the famous Semper Opera in Dresden. This DVD is another magnificent production from Andr Rieu. As well as a charming bride and bridegroom, who are part of the famous 'Vienna Debutantes', there are 40 fabulous pairs of dancers from the same Elmayer Dance School in Vienna, the sopranos Mirusia Louwerse and Carmen Monarcha, the Platinum Tenors, baritone Morschi Franz and the Johann Strauss Orchestra and Choir, and with the inspirational direction of Andr Rieu, together they give a fantastic concert, more festive than ever! The audience at the Semper Opera are not just enthusiastic, they are delirious... carried along by the beautiful waltzes, the fiery paso doble, the gorgeous arias from opera and operettas, humorous scenes, moving songs from (well of course, in this wonderful venue) The Phantom of the Opera, and by the end they are dancing along with the bride and bridegroom and the Vienna Debutantes, to the fabulous music of Andr Rieu and his orchestra. In short, it's a great party and one you simply can't miss!

