<0068210>
<http://www.dangriffin.ca/lyrics.html>
<Rater 1: LY_SL *  * N * ID: A3AROFXSS8WLSY>
<Rater 2: LY_SL *  * N * ID: A3DFMWYTKJ57L>
<Rater 3: LY_SL *  * N * ID: A6IVYRP8FAIS>
<Rater 4: LY_SL *  * N * ID: AQ36OBO2GRA00>

<p> i was born in the city of toronto. given on the third of july. beneath the stars and satellites on the ceiling of my room i would cry. saying mother do you know where i've been hiding? father do you know where i have been? in the yard under the maple tree, these shoes are getting too small for my feet. it won't be long before i'm on my own. i'm hoping that the stars and the satellites will always bring me home. brother do you know what i've been wishing? that i would let the time fly if i could. cuz my eyes have always tried to see much further than my mind has understood. 25 years old and I am worried that i might never take the time i need, cuz my head has always been so much older than my shoulders can believe. it won't be long before i'm gone, it's true. and i'm hoping that the stars and the satellites will bring me home to you.
<p> well you said you were a firm believer in anything except your current state of mind. you're like the smoke from a house on fire, or from the ashes of a burning cigarette. you're like the feeling of a new beginning; it's more familiar than anything you've known. it's probably just the whiskey talking. it's true, when we we're introduced, i never felt so good, i never felt so true. playing games in an age of empires, the screen flashed like a sign telling us to start. you said you liked the way that lenny loved you, and you loved the way that dylan broke your heart. you like the feeling of a new beginning; it's more familiar than anything you've known. it's probably just the whiskey talking. do you know if you're ready? you said you never were a firm believer in anything except your current state of mind. you change colours like canadian seasons, and i never stay in one place for too long. but it's true, when we we're introduced, i never felt so good, i never felt so true.
<p> tonight i will drink you away and all that i want to say. she's a drug and i'm fucked up on her. i tried to smoke you out: your face and my sense of doubt. your eyes remained but they looked away from me. so i stumbled by your house with fire on my breath and i stood there wishing you would still let me in. this heavy handed grip won't let your memory slip. she's a drug and i'm fucked up on her. your ghost still haunts my bed. your hairs have turned to threads and all i have these dreams of you and me. so tonight i will drink you away and all that i couldn't say she's a drug and i've had enough.
<p> you be the motive, i'll be the gun that we hid in the closet drawer. you be the darkness, i'll be quiet footsteps across the floor. we'll break in through the front door, you've run out before we started the fire, my partner in crime. you be the driver, i'll be the getaway car in the parking lot. you be the fire, i'll be the gasoline poured up and down the hall. we'll drive right into the night sky, covered by blue lights coming for us, my partner in crime. and in the morning we'll be strangers again.
<p> come on, let's find something to do. let's go out and jump in the dunes. there's no use sitting here inside. i see the sun and i feel alive. go on, let's find your brother we'll pretend we're undercover. and then we'll play a game of tag. mom packed us lunch, it's in the bag. summertime was golden, i remember when the days were long and we we're younger. come on, let's walk to town. i heard the girls are hangin' around. and as the daylight turns to dark, we'll spin the bottle in the park. summertime was golden, i remember when the night was young and we we're younger. come on, let's find something to do. let's go out, jumping in twos. there's no use sitting here inside.
<p> i just took the books out of the boxes and put up all the posters on the walls. how long does it take to make a new place feel like home? there's no sign of foot prints on these steps. no one's clothes are strung out on the floor. i feel like a stranger when i walk through my front door. a new street name is like and old photo placed in a picture frame; it might look different, but it's just a rearrangement of the same old troubles i've been going through. i found your love letters in the laundry. most of them i'd never even read. how much love can some one give without giving up instead? the dried up autumn leaves lay on the lawn and these freshly painted walls are caving in. i hope that time will draw a chapter where you end and i begin. it's like a game of chess with my loneliness, and i just stay in check; it's my condition and it's all about position, but i'm running out of places left to move.
<p> i don't fly a banner above my head anymore. years have come between us, are you still beautiful? could i ask forgiveness or is it too late for love? no recriminations have ever cleared anyone. lorne park, will you see me after dark? will you bathe me in your blue suburban sky? i've come home with a trail of blood and bones, to your street lights hung like halos in the night. tonight: i was walking backwards to the house i was born, when the grass grew over where i once held my own. could i ask forgiveness, or is it too late for love? no recriminations have ever cleared anyone. cut my wings and let me swing, childlike from your apron strings. bury me in the backyards and throw the memories over. cut my wings and let me swing. could you offer anything to a stubborn drunk with a serpent's tongue, still teething on an infant thumb?
<p> look at her dance. look at her move so slowly on the old wooden floors, with the radio on. every little change in the universe makes her heart shake and her stomach burst. she's holding on tight, but she's moving so fast. and when i'm come home, she's already in the bedroom sleeping with her headphones on and a bottle of wine. and every little word that i say to her, buzzes in her mind like hummingbirds that are hanging on tight, but they're moving so fast. she will make the moon rise in the morning. she is not afraid to fall in love. every time she dreams i hear her crying in her sleep. emily. she is waiting for your heart. she is waiting for your honesty. every time she falls in love, she falls apart again. emily is alright, but she's waiting for the dust to settle on the old wooden floors with the radio on. every little change in the universe makes her heart shake and her stomach burst. she's holding on tight but she's moving so fast.
<p> where did you leave your love? the oceans or the islands above? did you mark a sign so that i would dig it up? when did you know it was gone? could you see it coming all along but couldn't find a reason to keep me hanging on? did you find your way? did you find a way to never look back?

