<0118300>
<http://huntington.patch.com/articles/toddler-drowns-in-heckscher-park-pond>
<Rater 1: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A13Q8PG3IG6771>
<Rater 2: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A28OR0DDYOT4XB>
<Rater 3: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A2RFWIPVXZ5ON1>
<Rater 4: NA_NE *  * N * ID: A3209D1227UCYP>

<p> A Huntington Station toddler drowned Sunday morning in a pond at Heckscher Park.
<p> Suffolk County Police said they responded to a 911 call about 11:40 a.m. that a boy had fallen into a pond. The 2-year-old boy, who was at the park with his father, had been pulled from the pond when police arrived. A Good Samaritan was administering CPR.
<p> A Second Precinct officer took the boy and his father to Huntington Hospital , where the child was pronounced dead.
<p> Homicide Squad detectives are investigating the death, which is believed to be accidental.
<p> Oh Good Lord! :-( I was there today when the police arrived and I wasn't sure what had happened. Some parents just thought a child was lost, but when I asked no one knew. I'm so sad to hear this little baby lost his life :( I beg the town supervisor to please put up a gate around the pond. Too many children wander off near that pond to see the ducks. This is such a tragedy :( My thoughts are with the parents.
<p> You Do Not need a fence around the pond. You need parents to start really watching their kids instead of being on their cell phone and tablets while the littlest kids go running off in every direction looking for "Mommy or Daddy". I grew up in Huntington and I've seen these parents totally ignore young ones as little as 18 months that just learned to walk...it's horrible how some of these children are left alone and not really watched over. I take my granddaughter to that park constantly and see children wondering that are very little without parents right next to them. I feel awful for the parents of this poor little boy that died and I am not blaming them at all but a fence is not going to prevent this from happening again. This was a horrible accident I'm sure. But, most parents are way to busy with their phones and personal business at that park especially in the summer...they just leave the kids alone to play. They are lucky that there haven't been kidnappings there yet. It's very scarey!!
<p> Too many people mention a distracted parent as the likely cause. I don't have any more information than is in the story, and it doesn't mention anything about a distracted parent. While that is the most likely scenario given the information, it's not the only scenario.
<p> Regardless, fencing or protecting an area just because of a "potential" danger is not the answer. There's no fence around the grand canyon or the ocean and there shouldn't be.
<p> This is so sad. I agree that a fence should be put up. My daughter fell in 16 years ago when she was 2 years old also. I jumped right in and grabbed her out, leaving my newborn in the stroller on the sidewalk. Will never forget it. My condolences to this poor baby's family, I'm so sorry.
<p> I was there today with my 3 and 5 year old boys and was devastated to hear what had happened. I am so nervous everytime I go to this park because of the big pond with fish, ducks and turtles and no fence - a disaster waiting to happen right next to a child's playground. We parents are responsible for watching our little ones nonstop but why have such a dangerous park?
<p> Really....when I was growing up our parents simply watched us...you rarely heard of such incidences. I grew up at that park...ice skating and all. what park have you been to with a fence around the pond ???If parents are that concerned maybe they should not visit a park with a pond until their children are old enough to understand the dangers of falling in. Don't get me wrong this is a tragedy but really ..install a fence to solve the problem ? I don't think so.
<p> I agree with Greg. Don't get "momentarily distracted" and you have no worries. Parents are way more interested in their smart phones than they are in their kids these days. This father was so out of range of his child he didn't even realize he was in the pond and went to the playground first!.
<p> I agree completely. I am very upset by the lack of supervision by parents. But when you have more than one active little one, you really need a safe place where you do not have to worry about a child falling in when you turn your back to catch another child. I just do not go to this park alone anymore with more than one child because of the pond. I turned my back for a matter of seconds on my 2 year old to help my 3 year old and he fell in a pond (at another park) - it was not over his head and I immediately pulled him out but I am attentive, was not on a phone and never went back to that park again. I just feel that a fence would not distract from the beauty and would be safer.
<p> I agree. A fence IS needed, especially with the pond being so close to the playground. Children of all ages run in an out of that playground all the time, one could slip and fall in easily. You could be the most attentive parent and still an accident can happen.
<p> Why not put a fence around the playground with a gate that closes? Why are children allowed to free roam where there is a body of water? Take them to a safer park. Children First yes, put their safety before everything and go to a non pond park. We don't have fences around our streets.
<p> I agree. We can't fall prey to wanting the government to oversee anything that is potentially dangerous. People and parents need to be cautious themselves. I'm not some kind of libertarian that wants no government, but we should be careful what we ask for.
<p> The town built a wonderful fenced in play area for children and there is a ball field and lots of open spaces for children to play at Hecksher Park. It is not the job of the town to parent small children. This tragedy was an accident. We can't prevent every accident from happening. My heart breaks for these parents but I'm totally against the idea of a fence around the pond.
<p> God Bless You little Angel for you are in Gods place. For the family dad just believe that the Lord will give u strength and mostly peace...it was not your fault. Let God give you peace and the answers to your questions dad. God bless u. My husband will continue our prayers for the family
<p> It saddens me to read everyone's comment! A Father lost his son and A Child lost his life. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion and the towns Supervisor gives everyone a chance to express themselves does anyone go to the town hall and speak of your concerns? I don't think that it is right to do it now! How would you feel reading all of these comments after losing your child? Please this is not the time show some compassion. May God Bless the Family and may the little Rest In Peace.
<p> I don't know exactly how the tragedy happened. It would take only a few seconds for a parent to be distracted and a child to disappear under that dark pond water. My heart goes out to the parents and the poor child. The parent will forever torture himself with "if I only....". Perhaps he will make something good come from this by seeing that this cant happen again whether by a small fence or other means. May God love and comfort these parents until they are reunited with their little Angel.
<p> I don't know exactly how the tragedy happened. It would take only a few seconds for a parent to be distracted and a child to disappear under that dark pond water. My heart goes out to the parents and the poor child. The parent will forever torture himself with "if I only....". Perhaps he will make something good come from this by seeing that this cant happen again whether by a small fence or other means. May God love and comfort these parents until they are reunited with their little Angel.
<p> Before anyone judges this parent negligent, recall if you ever lost your child, even for 15 seconds, at the mall, chuck e cheese, adventure land. That's all the Time it would take for a two year old to exit the play ground ( via the gate opened by 8 year old) and run into the pond. There but for the grace of God go I.
<p> As a Muslim perspective, we believe that our life is already written for us from start to finish. This child's death was written earlier and it was time for him to depart from this world. God does everything for a reason and now he is testing you to see your reaction, God will never burden with something you can't handle. So please stay positive, he is in heaven with all the angels and hes happy. Please don't ask yourself questions like "if only..." Or "what if..." May all the blessings be with you and your family, you are going to be in my prayers. &lt;3
<p> Branda, I think the above comment was heartfelt and not a time to debate religious beliefs. How awful for this family. My thoughts are with you. I personally don't agree with fence, but they will probably have to because of the lawsuit. I played there as a child and brought my children there. It is unfortunate to see how many people are more involved with their phones, etc. than nature.
<p> this is terrible but a fence but a fence what about all the kids that grew up sailing boats and watching the fish up close do we take that away from them.The play ground has a fence with a gate and people do close the gate upon entering the play ground.This is terrible but do we gate off our beach's what about sunkin meadow do we run fences along the stream banks where do we step up and be the best parent we can be and watch our children
<p> I was at the park with my 2 yr old when this happened. I'm so saddened to hear that he died. I can't help but wonder if my son and this little boy were playing together on the slide just minutes before this happened. My heart breaks for this family and I hope they can find the strength to move forward from this tragedy.
<p> Well said, Lisa. God bless this family as they prepare to bury their child. May God give them the strength to get through this. Samira, I agree with you. We cannot blame ourselves... this poor Dad and their family need strength and support to get through this, not Monday morning quarterbacks!!!
<p> This is too sad for me. I raised 3 children and have 6 grandchildren and I can't imagine the horror the parents must be feeling right now. But what is a 2 year old doing so far away from his father? Shouldn't he have been holding him close if they were that near to the water? Sorry but a baby that age should be watched very carefully.
<p> Parents need to take responsibility for their children. I am tired of seeing parents letting their kids run wild. It is happening more and more all over. When will the government start making parents responsible? It is about time...
<p> It is so offensive to blame parents and ask for government interference. This is a terrible tragic ACCIDENT. It is impossible to be a perfect parent. I just feel so terrible for this poor family. So sad.
<p> Fencing in the pond is a ridiculous idea! The pond is full of wildlife... the ducks, geese, swans and turtles need to get in and out of the water!
<p> Yes, our children need to be safe. Yes, parents need to be more responsible watching their children. Yes, this was a tragic accident. But, please, no fence, this is nature for all of us to enjoy and for the wildlife to live in.
<p> Suggestion...if your child is a "runner", you should know not to put them in situations where they can potentially get in trouble. Toddlers may be better off experiencing the pond from the confines of a stroller, strapped in safely. Let them run free in the playground area.
<p> Please stop with the fences. There already is a fence around the playground. As a mom of two very busy twin boys I understand the whole situation of a child running ahead of you. But your eyes and attention NEVER leave the children. I have been to Heckscher countless times during the years when they were little and followed them and watched them like a hawk the entire time. This is a terribly unfortunate and sad accident but does not warrant a fence around the pond. Those few seconds you allow yourself to be distracted are all it takes for the unthinkable to happen. The lesson to take away from this accident is eyes and attention on your little ones at all times.
<p> And you DON'T live on Long Island, so maybe you should stop commenting on everything going on in a town in which you are no longer a resident. GO AWAY already and find something better to do other than complain all the time.
<p> People need to re-read the facts. This father was at the pond with the child - he didn't escape from the playground or wander off. No doubt the man was updating facebook or checking a twitter feed. I am so sick of seeing parents out with their kids and interacting with their phones instead of their kids. This poor man paid a dear price for this foolishness. Yes accidents can happen to anyone - ANYONE - but there are things you do to mitigate the possibilities.
<p> Very sad story, but installing a fence to mitigate against parents who don't watch their kids sends the wrong message. If a fence is installed, more and more parents will come to rely on it instead of watching their kids. Parents need to use common sense. This father didn't even realize where his kid was ... he went to the playground to look for him before returning to the pond area. So this guy was completely out of touch despite a two year old running around. Geezzzze !
<p> You obviously have don't understand freedom of speech. You are free to say whatever you want without the government censoring you. You are not entitled to post whatever you want on a message board owned by a corporation.
<p> This is so tragic, but please let's be real here. As a parent of two, who has raised both my kids in this park, and as a resident of Huntington for 22 years, there is NO reason for a fence! I have seen so many parents distracted and not supervising their children. This is not the fault of a flawed design, but rather a father who was not attentive. Who would allow a 2-year old near the water? NOTHING like this has happened before. There is no reason to punish the community by putting up a fence and separating this wonderful pond from the public. It is a parent's responsibility to WATCH their children. This is a beautiful park, and it will be ruined by a fence. The children's playground is gated. It is safe. It is tragic that this child drowned, but it not due to the lack of a fence.
<p> I cannot believe we are comparing scenery with the possible prevention of a tragic accident like this. This is also my childhood park and my children have been going there since day one. In fact I was there on Saturday. Yes this is a beautiful park and yes that pond can be very dangerous for young children. Yet we who go, are going with the BEST of intentions. Anyone who has children (and is honest) will tell you it could take one second for a child to take off. We have all had that horrifying feeling and for most of us it luckily it has been a fleeting feeling. The absolute best, most careful parents have experienced this. How anyone can presume to know exactly what that man was doing is beyond me. People should reserve their judgement and just pray for this family.
<p> I can't imagine what that man was thinking when he saw his son. I feel so bad for him because I know as the father of a 7 and 4 year old, it is easy to get distracted.
<p> A fence should be put up. For those that complain it will affect the wildlife, would that be the wildlife that the town doesn't want you feeding (geese and ducks) or fishing? Common sense says human life was lost and a fence that is aesthetically pleasing yet functional should be installed. I am the first one to complain when things are changed because stupid people do dumb things (ie Putting scalding coffee between your legs, have it spill and sue McDonalds). But this is something that could have been prevented. Yes it would have helped if the man stared at his child but imagine if instead of a phone he was tending to another child as many in that park do, would that have made it more ok?
<p> Very sad, the park has been there for ever...can people just be responsible! a fence around the pond is almost a metaphor for whats happened in this country today, legislate everything, Its a sad and Horrible Tragedy, but I don't want to read in the paper that some politician is now pushing for the "Johnny law to prohibit children under 5 years of age from attending a park with a pond. But I wouldn't doubt Its coming!
<p> The town should drain the pond, this would immediately end any drowning risk and also keep most birds out(we all know that they spread avian disease anyway). They should also move the telephone poles and wires further away from the park because children fly kites there. While they are at it, the town should post signs stating that anyone playing any type of ball game in the park must wear a helmet because of the risk of head injury. Matter of fact, even though the kids have a padded floor in the playground, make playground helmets mandatory as well. Also, certain exhibits in the museum should be regulated, many forms of abstract art have been known causes of seizure. You know what, forget it ACCIDENTS HAPPEN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! These knee-jerk reactions to one incredibly sad incident are ridiculous!
<p> Right On JH! To many people want the government to be their parents, they don't want to be responsible for their own actions. Regulate everything, because people can't think for themselves or be responsible for their own actions...how about we all live in a bubble! We are headed there...but lets put a fence around the pond...and change it from a park to a prison. And yes I think we all feel for this man and his family, it's a very sad and tragic, a death of a child is loss for our entire community.
<p> It is a terrible loss, and as a father, I can't imagine what this poor man must be going through. However, this pond is very safe. I've been living here 22 years, and nothing like this has happened before. THINK about that people. Horrible accidents happen, no matter what is done to prevent them. The waterline is quite removed from the walkway by either fenced in piers, yes fenced, or is separated by at least 10 feet, plantings and rocks in most areas. A child is not "suddenly going to be in the water." Fencing off this beautiful pond is ridiculous. Why not fence off the beaches too? People drown at the beaches on a regular basis each year. Toddlers already have a dedicated fenced-in play area at this park. The population of Huntington should not be punished because one man was not paying attention to his child. It is tragic, please do not confuse my response with that of someone who is not feeling the human element here, I am.
<p> I think we should all be careful with our words because, what if the father of this child was reading these comments How painful it would be for him, put yourself literally in his shoes for just 5 minutes, read these comments. His child has just passed away. Please be careful with what you post even if it is your opinion, put other people's feelings into perspective.
<p> accident/?aksid?nt/ Noun: An unfortunate incident that happens unexpectedly and unintentionally, typically resulting in damage or injury. I don't think most people are placing blame. It would just be unfortunate to take away another peaceful landscape to try to child proof it. I think the playground being fenced in is quite enough, along with the entire park. This child was not at the playground. My children come home from school and are so disappointed that at recess they are not allowed to run around at the playground anymore and they are not allowed to play games like tag. The recess was changed because a child broke a bone during recess at the playground a few years back. Obviously I am very sorry for this parent. no fence please.
<p> My prayers go out to them but honestly, the fault isn't with the lack of a fence. It's the lack of parenting and paying attention to their children as opposed to chit chatting with friends, texting and talking on the phone. This is extremely unfortunate and just another reason parents need to be "with" their children and paying attention to them at all times. Cell phones, friends and calls can wait!
<p> Phones are not going away and neither are the children in the park. Try to have empathy for these parents and an innocent two year who is no longer here and there is nothing anyone can do about it. I grew up there so did my parents, grandparents, and great grandparents. I remember jumping across stepping stones in the water.There has never been anything like this before.
<p> There are dangers lurking around every corner.. Maybe we should just start putting our kids in bubbles so we don't have to watch them.. Let's fence in the pond, and while we're at it we should fence in the beach too..
<p> Putting up a fence around the pond is a ludicrous idea. I brought both my children to the pond when they were little and when we walked around it, we held hands unless we were on the small boardwalk areas. This is a beautiful pond. For those of you who are scared of it, here's an idea; don't go there with your kids.

