<0168596>
<http://www.punditpress.com/2012/11/breaking-st-lucie-county-florida-had.html>
<Rater 1: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A37LY5UTJV2KYZ>
<Rater 2: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A5LLSZG8YCAZF>
<Rater 3: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A841FR9QWUPT4>
<Rater 4: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: AHJQDF8PAHVDP>

<p> When faced with the astronomical figures, Gertrude Walker, Supervisor of Elections for St. Lucie County, said she had no idea why turnout was so incredibly high. She was flabbergasted, saying , "We've never seen that here."
<p> This data is bogus. The over 100% is based on cards counted. There were two cards per voter. The actual results are posted at the county web site at: http://www.slcelections.com/Pdf%20Docs/2\\...
<p> The statement of cards cast is also there. There was 70% voter turnout. BTW, Roseanne Barr got 145 votes for President there.
<p> In every election someone wins and someone loses. That's what makes it an election. When your guy loses, it does not automatically mean that the election was rigged. It means that most of the people did not want your guy. I don't hear any of you questioning Romney's wins in the Red States. I guess only Democrats cheat?
<p> Some of the commenters here could be hit square in the face with a 2x4 and swear up and down it never happened. The theory used by an earlier poster that there are 'two cards per voter' would mean that the % would be consistent to the amount of voters voting. That means that over 500 'voters' should really be upset cause they didn't get their 2nd card. Some areas did not have that many voting but the % showed something a lot different. Helps to know what one is talking about when making such statements
<p> Obama and his Chicago cronies have done it again. Why can't the Republican Party find a Presidential Candidate who wants to win more than wanting to be seen as a gentleman? If Obama was/is so damn good why are so many of his appointees leaving his administration. Perhaps some of them can no longer stomach the constant deceptions and dirty tricks. What we truly need are some common sense solutions a. 2 terms as a senator or representative b. congressional people lose pension c. congressional people have to have ObamaCare d. congressional people have to abide by all the laws everyone else does-no more exemptions for them e. 1 six year term for President f. balanced budget every year no matter what g. we have billions in Chinese war bonds from WWll-use them to pay down our debt to China h. Japan owes us billions in reparations from WWll-use that to pay down our debt to them i. suspend ALL foreign aid until our deficit is zero and we have a 5 trillion surplus.
<p> Brilliant idea anonymous... Even though one can explain away the 2x number of votes difference between registered and cast, (ie.,2 cards per vote) I still believe that it was absolutely fixed. The vote aggregation at the top levels was manipulated. The vote count is totally fraudulent. It is statistically impossible to have 0 votes for Romney in over 50 counties in PA. The same sort of thing happened in Ohio. You can't tell me that absolutely no one in those areas can't see through the obuma deceptions and didn't vote against him. Nope. Not going to believe it. Also, the Rasmussen polls showed a distinct advantage for Romney in many areas and the disparity of "vote totals" is simply too far off from this proven reputable polling agency results. And how does every single battleground state - every single one - go for the DEOTC (domestic enemy of the constitution) ??? How? I'm just asking a question here. And please don't try to tell me obuma was a better candidate than Romney. Nothing but lies out of obuma. Romney was a classy and respectful candidate. We need to prosecute this deception or all will be lost in 2014.
<p> OK this was not a 2 page ballot, it was a 3 page ballot. A card counted is one submission from a voter, that equals one ballot no matter how many pages it is. I vote, I voted in this county and this is just one of the corrupt machines down here. you want real corruption, check out Broward, what a mess!!
<p> "So what?" You actually said "So What"??? So, you condone cheating, dufus? This also happened in Ohio, which was another close state. The total number of votes in Hamilton County was 109% of the total number of registered voters. Please explain that one, Mr. Brainiac... So, what does that have to do with the Electoral College??? Well, I learned in my 7th grade civics class that number of Electors from those two states would have gone into Romney's column. Duh?
<p> Ps. Can u imagine if Romney won. The riots the destruction. That is Fucking sad that your voters are that ignorant to d and threaten that. Thank God conservatives are so classy. All you liberals have is racisim, lies and the know how to Bleed the system because u are too lazy to work hard to cheat lie threaten and abuse the system. Sounds perfect to only raise you idiot in training children to be just like you and that is worthless. U are followers like cows being lead to the slaughter house. Nothing is free ps. A hard day at work any day to feed clothe and house your family. It makes u a good person but unfortunately destroying a nation for freebies, mythical hope, gay marriage and abortion as birth control. U don't see the blood on the hands of your president. All u can see is where he can steal from us to give to your pathetic families. God forbid u instill a work ethic for your libtards in training. But whatever. U deserve it and just sit aside and eat that nasty government cheese and don't care that there is do much more out there cause that US all you strive for. I'm sure your ancestors are so proud.
<p> You're an idiot. By all the recounts done by the mainstream media, Al Gore lost every time. Where we the allegations of Republicans cheating anywhere in the election process? Grow up and realize that the political system in this country is turning into a tyrannical system of controlling power. We need to term limit everyone in Washington and get people like Obama, who want to take away our Liberty and property, out of office immediately.
<p> You are all so sad the whole world wanted Obama Rom just was not a good ticket.Fix the Rep party and try again .Get real programmes and deal with a changing world and cultures get on board the train of life its never going to stop.And your party is stuck in the past god bless from Austin living in europe from ireland
<p> If Bush had somehow "stolen" Florida in '00, then why was it so solid in his column in '04 that it wasn't even in play?!? And the other little diddy that liberals forget/ignore, had Gore won his home state, Florida wouldn't have even mattered! Gore couldn't even win his home state!
<p> Everybody needs to drop it and let it be. The election is over what good is all this cursing, name calling doing. We need everybody to stop this madness and let us lives our lives. I plan to keep serving Jesus Christ and pray for my country and the Government. This attitude and madness is sick. Let it go.
<p> I agree with Anonymous who wrote "Everybody needs to drop it and let it be. The election is over what good is all this cursing, name calling doing. We need everybody to stop this madness and let us lives our lives. I plan to keep serving Jesus Christ and pray for my country and the Government. This attitude and madness is sick. Let it go." America made their choice.. now they need to live with it.. Whatever happens now is their own fault!!! I just pray that God will help us all!
<p> FL did not get forced on us ny fraud or the supreme court. The Miami Herald conducted their own recount and found that Bush would have won under all credible and acceptable recount methods. Please learn facts as opposed to talking points.
<p> You are wrong again ! if you had voted for Mitt Romney you would not have to face all the doggerol that is going on in this column ! Obama rigged the polls so that he would win . if not.. How did he get 147% of the votes in florida ?? did everyone use their Guppies to vote , and every onter thhhg thing that has a name in their home ?
<p> Indeed there are not enough prisons, but they should forfeit their right to vote and be classified as felons.
<p> Of course, that doesn't prevent them from voting as somebody else or as a dead person unless the voting lists are purged of dead people before every election and valid, state-issued Picture ID is presented in order to vote.
<p> Also, students must be prohibited from voting in anything other than their permanent residence. A dormitory or college apartment is NOT a permanent residence. Also, there must be a way to cross-check permanent residency, to minimize double voting.
<p> What we need to do people is get congress to pass a constitutional amendment to only allow those who actually pay taxes the right to vote. This would fix this problem. If you don't pay taxes, you have no right to determine how the money is spent.
<p> No. You're confused. In St Lucie Co, as in other Florida counties, there was a two-card ballot. The image captured in the story shows the number of cards cast, not the number of ballots case. The latter is half the former.
<p> The captured image is from page two of the "Statement of Votes Case" dated 7 Nov 2012, 1:39AM. (Go to www.slcelections.com.) On page 3 of the same document, the total number of votes is given. It's 123,591, which is 70.4% of registered voters. I repeat, the same document the writer cites explicitly states that the total number of votes cast was 123,591, NOT 247,713.
<p> Continuing on the same document, we see that Romney got 56,125 votes (45.5%) and Obama got 66,246 (53.6%). Minor party and write-in candidates got 1,220 votes.
<p> The alacrity with which the writer, and most commenters, latched onto this bogus story should give you all pause. A few moments' reflection, a more careful reading of the Statement of Votes Cast, or, failing that, a quick phone call to Florida, could have saved you the embarrassment of going off half-cocked. It's a bad thing to be so desperate to believe our elections are fraudulent & our elected leaders lack democratic legitimacy that you'll grasp at, and propagate, inane nonsense such as this.
<p> Are we 100% this an official document? What is the source? I believe there was a twitter army - 1 branch whose specific mission was to vote two times and did. Check out "era detergent" at twitter then back trace the individual posters individual posters. You had to be recommended to join. Why do I suspect this? I am lawyer and drug dealers openly talk on phone in "code" using gallons of x kind of paint to stand for amount of drugs. etc. Someone want to help me investigate the 2x BOOM with a fist on it as the sign????
<p> Incorrect Joey C. Because they had never had a two ballot vote before, they did not adjust the math that the computer uses. Typically it would be cards cast divided by registered voters, which is what they used. When there is only one card, this gives you the % turnout (i.e. cards cast 500, registered voters 1000, 500/1000=.50=50%) however, because they didn't update their math, it comes out as if more votes were cast then were registered voters (15158/9553=1.5867=158.67%). Bad math, but no fraud.
<p> The St Lucie County election website notes that each card was counted and that since there were two cards in that county, the number appears to be about twice the actual turnout. To the poster claiming the number is not divisible by 2, the county notes that not all people turned in the second card (apparently they didn't care as much about the state questions that were the content of the second card).
<p> Doesn't fly...Anonymous, by this analysis -what IS the point of having 2 cards then. Even the St. Lucie County 'Democrat' Election Supervisor said she just couldn't understand how it happened. So either she doesn't know what she is talking about or you don't.
<p> Jimmy, I am offended by your language -You could have politely put "What the F*** are you talking about?" Did you go to twitter and search for "era detergent"? Did you look at the bottle to compare it with the actual real ERA detergent site? Did you look closely with an open mind? Did you like on the posters and see what they were tweeting and who they followed?? I did.
<p> Please, for the love of God, do some fucking research you ignorant idiots. The Florida ballots were TWO PAGES LONG, therefore, TWO BALLOT CARDS WERE NEEDED FOR EACH PERSON. Do the quick math: 175,554 people submitting 2 cards each because of the 12 amendments they had to vote on = 175554x2, which equals 351,108 cards that could have been cast. 247713/351108 (number of actual cards cast divided by total possible) = .7055. Move the decimal two points over, and you get only about 70.55% of people who could vote actually voting.
<p> I didn't call anyone "stupid", I called them "ignorant". Stupid means "unable to understand". Ignorant means "didn't do the research before spouting off at the mouth about things". So my comment stands.
<p> We all know there was voter fraud in several swing states votes. In every state that requires Voter ID (like paystub, ss card #, etc).. Obama won all of them.. hmmmmm..... doesnt that make you wonder? why can't a voter be required to have a paycheck stub, SScard and #, or Personal property/real estate tax receipt.. something to prove they are eligible to vote...
<p> Actually, some Florida Counties had 2 cards, some had 3. Citrus county had 2 cards due the the excessively long text of the amendments. District 105 ( City of Crystal River) had 3 because of all the city government stuff. I like many believe this election was tampered with, but in this case, it's the error of St. Lucie county's supervisor of elections incorrectly programming the machine to give accurate turn-out percentages.
<p> To all the people upset with the outcome of the election, I will point out here what I've pointed out elsewhere. We the red counties of America are the source of the food shipped to the cities.. Stop sending them food and see how long they can last.
<p> For those that bitch about this being posted Anonymous.. I didn't want to register..
<p> Murphy 160,328 votes to West's 157,872 - 318, 200 votes using figures reported by all sources that I found. As of Oct 12, they had 175K registered voters. I also found the same exact document on the SLelection website under Election Results exactly as printed above. Check it out for yourself. You decide. http://www.slcelections.com/ This says to me that the lefties were so enthusiastic to unseat Allen West, they over did it and are now caught with their pants down! Trust but verify. Verify it yourself.
<p> Where did you get your numbers? According to pages 21-22 of that report: 52,625 votes (44.25%) for West, 65,896 (55.41) for Murphy. For a total vote count of 118,521 (which is what it says on page 20).
<p> math aside there is something strange going on for this election. If you look at B.O's record for the last 4 years and his low approval rating something is very fishy. I am sure there was fraud involved maybe we can take to the U.S. attorney general he'll fix it.
<p> Thank god I'm not the only one fact checking these articles. I can barely keep up at times. However if anyone knows any liberal blogs with crazy claims, I'd love to fact check them as well. I've actually seen the same thing in a couple other counties where they weren't setup for 2 cards. The reason the lines were so long was that Florida had an unusual amount of provisions on the ballot which made some of the voting books 13 pages long. Top this with reduced early voting days and you have giant lines. What they should have done with reduced voting days was open additional polling stations. Instead they ended up paying a lot of OT to poll workers, which wasn't very fiscally sound.
<p> Yes because I think that these examples of voter fraud are poorly researched and inaccurate, I must be crazy. Face it, the was probably voter fraud, but these examples are terrible. What more they come from states with Republican Secretaries of State who have the ability to investigate and certify election results. My problem with these articles is that the longer people sitting around pretending they were robbed, the further we fall behind planning to turn around the results for the next elections.
<p> Look, the Democraps will commit voter fraud ANYWHERE they can, by any means they can. The ACORN vote fraud prosecutions, the James Keefe videos, and many exposs have proven that.
<p> But . . . there appears to be NOTHING legit about these punditpress stories of voter fraud. When you check the cited election results, the vote totals are NOT as claimed in the article. The pictured page with "cards" listed is NOT the vote total for St. Lucie County. The county had 124,031 voters who cast ballots out of 175,554 registered voters - the numbers are listed on page 4 of the linked .pdf document from the county.
<p> There WERE NOT "dozens of Cleveland districts with 100% of the vote" as was claimed in another article. There simply were not - the Cleveland turnout was 66.4%. It's not too hard to imagine that black voting districts in Cleveland voted for Urkel by 95% margins. BTW, that just means that 95% of the votes cast by blacks were for Obama - NOT that 95% of the registered voters in those districts actually voted. That is not voter fraud.
<p> Whoever is writing these stories is a fraud - either some kind of misfit or sociopath, or a partisan hack, or possibly a leftist propaganda artist, who knows? Whatever, they don't have any basis in fact.
<p> Don't get me wrong, I'm as hardcore a conservative as anyone you'll ever meet. I'm sure that there were 1,000's of fraudulent votes cast by "absentee voters." But the election returns don't identify those voters.
<p> They are the other two people of three registered in a one-person home, or a college student registered in two states, or the non-existent siblings, friends or roommates of Democraps who have filled out voter applications for people who do not actually exist.
<p> Dems are using stories such as these to portray conservatives as just a bunch of conspiracy-minded rednecks trying to dispute a lawful election. Don't play into their hands. Wait for the real investigations to root out the real, PROVABLE, voter fraud !
<p> "Dems are using stories such as these to portray conservatives as just a bunch of conspiracy-minded rednecks trying to dispute a lawful election."
<p> True. Looking at the comments here, they have lot of evidence to prove what they say too.
<p> "I'm sure that there were 1,000's of fraudulent votes cast by "absentee voters." But the election returns don't identify those voters.
<p> They are the other two people of three registered in a one-person home, or a college student registered in two states, or the non-existent siblings, friends or roommates of Democraps who have filled out voter applications for people who do not actually exist."
<p> Also true, and annoyingly, proving that is hard.
<p> Proving that a significant number of those calling themselves conservative are reality-challenged is trivial.
<p> In the past, the sheer numbers of such people in "the base" have made it worthwhile to tolerate their idiocy. Now, the numbers of equally reality-challenged people on the Left are high enough to almost counterbalance them, but not high enough to make it as easy to point out to the sane who just want someone competent to run the country.
<p> Obama is a fake, a crook and a cheat has been lying and hidding things about himself and his political goals all along. He would be unable to present a single achievement during his entire first term as president but has a long list of devastating failures and "strange" behaviour patterns. It is beyound comprehension why anyone in America, right in his mind would still vote for him again.
<p> They voted for him because he gives them free stuff. He's Santabama. They could not care any less if he's a fraud as long as they get their free ride. This country is very corrupt. I will continue to vote and try to make a difference, but the message of "hard work" doesn't seem to appeal to far too many free loaders.
<p> The only reason why I looked at Wisconsin is because of the recent anecdotal evidence with the Scott Walker elections in both 2010 and 2012. It immediately jumped at me that something just did not seem right. In fact, Scott Walker increased his victory margin in his recall election just 5 months ago from his prior election in 2010.
<p> You do realize that youth voters usually only turn out for Presidential Elections right? They haven't learned yet that you vote up to 4 times a presidential cycle depending on where you live. (Though normally twice)
<p> Some will call it sour grapes, but something is definitely ROTTEN. I understand the difference in cards vs votes in St Lucie county, but fraud in our country is alive and well, aided and abetted by.... early voting, motor-voter, many little acorns, unions, corrupt media, even the US AG, etc. Can't tell me that the fraud machine hasn't been honing its skills for this week, targeting exactly where and how to steal another one. How the hell does WI vote for Walker in June, and Tammy Baldwin in Nov? Something stinks to high heaven.
<p> Wisconsin had vans from Illinois that showed up with voters wearing Bear garb just to really be in people's faces. IA, WS, MI, PA and others had fraud by precincts no one had access to or flipping digits in software. South FL had all night voting in Broward and Dade. Florida had early voting for over a week. Democrats wanted it extended. Then you had lines in Dade and Broward so they voted until after midnight and Romney only "lost" Florida by 64,000. Meanwhile the media says nothing.
<p> To all the people saying that it was two pages that accounted for the vote totals, you're totally right. Luckily, as evidence, you can look at all the other counties in Florida that had this problem. What? There were none? And it just happened to be coincidental that it happened in Allen West's district? Oh, well, I'll just say I'm a conservative, insult the DemoRATS at the beginning of my comment, and no one will notice how full of it I am.
<p> This is a TOTAL SHAM! Cards Cast DIVIDED by 2 = Votes Cast. Normal voter turnout is between 60-70% & Florida's turnout was within this range. Take just 001 Lakewood Park: on top you will see that the registered voters are 4815 & "Cards Cast" at 6550. Then go to the "President & Vice President" section & you will see that there were 4815 registered voters and 3273 votes. If you double the 3273, you get 3546 (3550), which is 67.9%.....
<p> The election was stolen. Massive fraud and all night voting in Florida (Broward & Dade), Ditto Ohio, Wisc (bussed in thugs), Iowa, PA and other states. Allan West needs to keep fighting win and replace Boehner as speak of the House.
<p> The House can defund anything. Romney won the election and supposedly "lost" FL by 64,000 votes.
<p> We are going to have to go back to paper ballots and hand counts at precincts. If it takes a week, so be it. This early voting and not letting the military vote is BS. Voter ID is no help went thugs control a precinct and the software is easily hacked. The GOP had no clue and better get tough fast.
<p> Check this out, and its from a news source that's actually semi-objective news source, not a mouth piece for the left or right. Funny how people like to cherry pick the facts to support their views. Rather we should objectively look at the facts and then assess, even modify our opinions.
<p> I don't know what "cards cast" means, but that's the figure that they are using to calculate turnout. It doesn't translate to VOTES cast. If you look at the report, there were 123,591 total votes cast, and there are 175,554 registered voters. That's a VOTING participation rate of 70%.
<p> The election has been stolen for years! If you felt cheated, you should have rallied around and for your candidate like I did. Read, educate yourselves, and vote facts and values, not race, religion, and unforeseen and unproven promises. Mittens was never forthright with his plan and was only transparent when it came to how out of touch he was with you all....the 47%. Clearly you are a part of the 47% with your poor grammar and lack of punctuation marks and are ashamed to admit that you've been rejected from your own team for lack of education and class status. Luck your wounds and move on while you attempt to pretend that you nor your ancestors have ever lied, cheated, or stole. Now you want to cry foul!? Get over it or move. PS: Bringing a bullet to politics, where you'll win some and lose some, only shows the lack of education, class, and strength you, your ppl, and your party has. If that were protocol, to kill or harm those that got away with Wong doing on election day, there would be none of you left
<p> This is all ridiculous. How about you look at the Florida Sec of State website, and stop with this conspiracy nonsense! The votes for St. Lucie total 123,880. Get a life people! http://enight.dos.state.fl.us/CompareCou\\...
<p> So many claim BOGUS information stated, however looking at the links the accuser reference to show BOGUS on the votes. Numbers cannot lie, however they be manipulated by man to be deceitful.According to the web site it shows that there were 175,554 people eligible to vote. On Tuesday the number of individual voting cards cast in the multiple card ballot totaled 249,095. Each voter cast two cards. If this is correct then there would be 124,547 citizens who voted. However, Gertrude Walker states that 71% of the eligible citizens voted, this number then should be 124,643.34. Even a small in-discrepancy in numbers shows manipulation of the numbers. Moreover, Walker continually acknowledges "nothing like this has ever happened, I am not sure what is going on", Well, Ms. Walker you are paid roughly $110,000 a year to know. But hey I'm sure you know exactly what is/has occurring/ed.
<p> Before you buy into the "massive voter fraud" and "141%!!!!!!!" frothing....this is a non-story, and I'll tell you precisely WHY it's a non-story.
<p> The software used in Florida elections counts ballots as "cards." A one-page ballot counts as 1 "card cast" when it's read by the machine, a 2-page ballot counts as 2 "cards cast" when read, et cetera...
<p> So, what's on that second page? Of course, it varies by county/city/precinct, but it's going to be all the local races, tax propositions, and perhaps a few constitutional amendments. If a voter chooses not to vote on those questions, then they don't even have to turn in that second page of the ballot - which means that, given a two-page ballot, some voters have 2 "cards cast" while others have but 1.
<p> The official count http://goo.gl/a2gDi (Obama 66,246, Romney 56,125, Others 899) is 123,270 which is 52,284 short of the 175,554 registered voters in St. Lucie County. That means 70% of the registered voters cast their vote, not 141%. Where's the fraud?
<p> This article should either be removed or have a correction posted. Since each voter had TWO CARDS the supposed 140% turnout was really only 70%. Add a correction or remove the piece Aurelius. The longer this stays uncorrected the lest credibility you have.
<p> After it was announced that he was the winner, I was expecting something like this to play. This is a musical tribute to Dear Leader Obama done in old style Soviet glory. Rise and be repulsed. http://adfoc.us/9802412393268 --- if it takes too long to load, click "skip" in upper right hand corner to play video instantly. Feel free to share this message.

