<0176402>
<http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20056061-503544.html>
<Rater 1: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A2IVUW3VOHJL8J>
<Rater 2: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A2YTOX7SEDJ1TC>
<Rater 3: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A7NZ814Q5MX2R>
<Rater 4: NA_NE *  * N * ID: A1HBDQ0BJQBA4Q>

<h> Poll: One in four Americans think Obama was not born in U.S.
<p> A quarter of all Americans incorrectly think President Obama was not born in the United States, according to a new CBS News/ New York Times poll.
<p> Among all Republicans, 45 percent believe he was born in another country, as do 45 percent of Tea Party supporters, the poll shows.
<p> Since the start of Mr. Obama's 2008 presidential campaign, rumors have existed that he was born outside of the United States. The "birther" myth has steadily persisted through Mr. Obama's presidency, in spite of overwhelming evidence he was born in the United States -- including his 1961 birth announcement, printed in two Hawaii newspapers.
<p> Businessman and television personality Donald Trump has pushed the issue into the spotlight in recent weeks, insisting that he is unconvinced of Mr. Obama's origins. While Trump has used the issue to bring more attention to his possible Republican presidential bid, other Republicans are trying to tamp down the "birther" talk.
<p> House Tea Party Caucus Chairwoman Michele Bachmann said recently that it's time to " move on " from the issue. Additionally, Arizona's Republican Gov. Jan Brewer recently vetoed a bill, penned in response to questions about Mr. Obama's origins, that would have made Arizona the first state to require presidential candidates to provide proof of their birth before getting on the state ballot.
<p> The myth seems fated to live on, however, as a new book will come out next month entitled, "Where's the Birth Certificate?: The Case that Barack Obama is not Eligible to be President."
<p> While 25 percent of all Americans in this new poll say Mr. Obama was born outside the U.S., 57 percent correctly said he was born in the United States. Another 18 percent said they did not know where he was born. Among Republicans, 33 percent said Mr. Obama was born in the U.S., and 22 percent said they did not know. Thirty-four percent of Tea Party supporters said the president was born in the U.S., while 21 percent said they didn't know.
<p> This poll was conducted among a random sample of 1,224adults nationwide, interviewed by telephone April 15-20, 2011. The error due to sampling for results based on the entire sample could be plus or minus three percentage points. The error for subgroups is higher. An oversample of Republicans was also conducted for this poll, for a total of 543 interviews among this group. The results were then weighted in proportion to the average party distributions in previous 2011 CBS News and CBS News/New York Times Polls and in the random sample in this poll. The margin of error for Republicans is plus or minus four percentage points.
<p> This just confirms to me that the GOP is comprised of racists. There is NOTHING but trumped-up racist propaganda to dispute that the president was born in Hawaii. There were newspaper clippings, for crying out loud. Really, was this Manchurian candidate plot hatched at his birth?
<p> It is why I no longer respect the Republican party. Racism is not a fringe element to them...it is their base.
<p> If the Constitution is to survive, Obama MUST be brought to justice. He has dedicated his life to "social justice" for minorities in Chicago for so many years...it's only correct to serve him up some REAL justice....the kind of justice they generously provide at our finest prisons!!! What I would really like to see is for all those judges who refused to deal with this case on its merits, but dismissed case after case on the basis of inadequate standing...I'd like these judges to do significant time or pay significant fines as a result of their judicial misconduct....especially the JAG who put Dr. Lakin away for 6 months. When it finally is released that Lakin was right, that JAG needs to "clean toilets at Alcatraz."
<p> I am speaking from a position of authority...I worked in a delivery room for over 18 years and know the WHO-approved process.(World Health Organization). You emotional investment in having a black president or left-wing president is clouding your rational thought. Obama must demonstrate US nativity like all other presidents before him. His blackness gave him a free ride...Polozzi acted inappropriately but verbally (and not in writing) "certifying" that he fell within the Constitutional requirements. He did NOT! And THAT is why Chief Justice Roberts erred in his stateing the proper oath of office. That is why he hasd to re-do the oath in the East room later that day. Unfortunately simple, basic facts are being questioned by the left in a desperate act to conceal Obama's ineligibility. He was born in Kenya...It amuses me that the paternal step grandmother, who recalled with exquisite detail, her traditional Kenyan prayer that she said at the time of Obama's Mombasan delivery at Coast Province Hospital, should be disbelieved! This grandmother was "oh-so-proud- of her grandson being Kenyan-born that when Obama's handlers tried to "correct her" for the Reuters and AP "schweinhunds" by screaming out "NO, Hawaii...her was born in Hawaii!" ...she was flummoxed and felt terrible that a bunch of American press were telling her that her prized experience wasn't worth anything!!!!! What a horrible thing to do to an honest women who was proud of her grandson and her native land...Kenya. No matter how you slice it folks....Obama is either Kenyan -born, or he lost his US citizenship by his move to Indonesia for such a long time as a minor. In either case, he is not an American citizen now and WILL BE FOUND GUILTY OF ESPIONAGE...his knowledge of our nuclear secrets alone is enough reason to seek life imprisionment. And his wifey will be charged with treason because she knew the truth and did nothing to dissuade the criminal we call Obama from running for president...for God sakes...he's a colonial Brit!!!
<p> joe85255 - I tend to agree with you completely although I doubt he will ever be brought to trial but I do agree with many of the things you have said.
<p> I would not be concerned with san850 as I have found him to be close minded to any thought process other than his own and most people would call that a lemming...smile. Great comments Joe as you brought up a few things that I had forgotten about. By the way, look at his (according to san850) kenyon birth certificate and look at the typing...it was done on an actual typewriter and then look at the copy that was shown on the internet and tv of the so called Hawaiian short form birth certificate.....it was done with a computer of which Hawaii records dept did not have in 1961...smile.....All birth certificates back then were typed on regular typewriters.
<p> You see, you say "fixed beliefs that are certainly and definitely false." I take it by that statement that you are an expert on everything and you know without a shadow of a doubt that your opinion is the ONLY one that is correct.....MMMMmmmm I love your phrase: "an attempt to contradict the belief is likely to arouse an inappropriately strong emotional reaction, often with irritability and hostility".....smile.......because that describes what YOU are doing to a T ! I myself have no emotion about this subject and your comments certainly don't evoke irritability or hostility towards you or anyone like you but rather it makes me sad that there are those like you with such closed minds. A great great mind once said "Many things in this life are improbable - but very very few are impossible"..... That is a good saying to live by because it is very true. I have never once asked anyone to believe the way I do but rather I simply ask others to have an open mind about things in this life because there are things that go on that we have no clue about and things that happen that we don't know about and things that we could not possibly understand WHY they are done that way........and yes, things that we believe has to be true because some big wig or government official has said so......and yet just how many government officials have you seen that have broken laws and have lied.....how many have gone to jail for whatever reason. An open mind is a healthy mind - A closed mind is corrupted.
<p> @1VNVet..."a closed mind is corrupted" ... and that's exactly what you appear to have on this issue: a closed mind. There have been numerous credible, nonpartisan sources which have legitimately investigated, debunked and disproved all of the lies and fabrications about a "birth certificate conspiracy", or "him paying millions to hide something" yet birthers absolutely refuse to believe the truth.
<p> You also absolutely ignore the fact that there were vast numbers of Obama haters who would have done ANYTHING to prevent his election to the Presidency, yet they didn't find this "Holy Grail" you all speak of with such certainty. This birther nonsense is an absurdity and laughing stock. Even most of the saner Repubs agree....it's only the extremist, radical, bigoted rightwingers and teabaggers who continue to chase this non-issue.
<p> The posting of advertisements, profanity, or personal attacks is prohibited. By using this Web site you agree to accept our Terms of Service . Click here to read the Rules of Engagement .
<h> Report offensive content:
<p> If you believe this comment is offensive or violates the CBSNews.com Terms of Use , you can report it below (this will not automatically remove the comment). Once reported, our staff will be notified and the comment will be reviewed.
<h> E-mail this comment to a friend.
<p> E-mail this to:
<p> Your e-mail address:
<p> Send me a copy of this message
<p> Note: Your e-mail address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the e-mail and in case of transmission error. Neither your address nor the recipients's address will be used for any other purpose.
<p> Add your own personal message: (Optional)
<p> Hi, I found this user's comment on CBSNews.com and thought you might be interested in reading it.

