<0272482>
<http://hamptonroads.com/2012/11/light-rail-passes-easily-virginia-beach>
<Rater 1: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A1ZFLC209CRCWR>
<Rater 2: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A274NFT93QPBGL>
<Rater 3: NA_NE * RC * N * ID: A27PJPWGD1QVJP>
<Rater 4: NA_NE * RC - QU * N * ID: A15LFIRQ542D1T>

<p> Light-rail supporters wanted a decisive approval of a referendum they hoped would spur the city to bring The Tide here.
<p> They got it.
<p> About 62 percent of voters approved the referendum, according to the State Board of Elections. Though the referendum was nonbinding, the City Council likely will adopt an ordinance stating it will pursue light-rail financing and development options.
<p> The referendum asked: "Should the City Council adopt an ordinance approving the use of all reasonable efforts to support the financing and development of The Tide light rail into Virginia Beach?"
<p> Light-rail supporters, who gathered at an Oceanfront restaurant and wore matching shirts emblazoned "I (heart) light rail," let out periodic cheers and pumped their fists after hearing early results. They noted this was a much different environment than in 1999, when a similar referendum failed.
<p> "City Council now has the confidence that this is what the citizens really want," said Carolyn McPherson, executive director of the grassroots organization Light Rail Now.
<p> Proponents said they'd gotten positive feedback while campaigning at the polls, and they noted the broad base of support, from tourism groups to other municipalities.
<p> "I think people understand that light rail is here to stay," said Aubrey Layne, chairman of Move Hampton Roads, a pro-light-rail political action committee.
<p> Light-rail supporters have argued that extending The Tide, Norfolk's light-rail line, into Virginia Beach would advance economic development, ease traffic congestion and offer a transportation alternative. The Tide started carrying Norfolk passengers in August 2011.
<p> Opponents had pointed to light rail's price tag. A consultant last year estimated it would cost $807 million to extend light rail to the Oceanfront from Norfolk, or $254 million to extend it only to Town Center. The city also has discussed including a Hilltop connection. Either project would likely be contingent on federal and state funding.
<p> Opponents also say that light rail wouldn't ease the city's traffic congestion and that funding for the city's transportation projects and public safety departments would take a hit.
<p> William Bailey, the head of the city's firefighters union, said the city will now add light rail to a long list of expenses, and residents could see services reduced because of it.
<p> "It would appear the voters by a percentage are willing to pay higher taxes," Bailey said.
<p> Before trains can start running in the city, a Hampton Roads Transit study must be completed. That will answer questions about light rail's cost, as well as ridership and the effect on congestion and the environment. The study will be completed in the spring of 2014.
<p> The subject of the study is a 10.6-mile former Norfolk Southern freight-rail line, which the city purchased in September 2010. It runs from Newtown Road to Birdneck Road and could be used for light rail.
<p> Light-rail proponents say that, at the earliest, if pursued, light rail would run in the city in 2018.
<p> COMMENTS ADVISORY: Users are solely responsible for opinions they post here; comments do not reflect the views of The Virginian-Pilot or its websites. Users must follow agreed-upon rules: Be civil, be clean, be on topic; don't attack private individuals, other users or classes of people. Read the full rules here. - Comments are automatically checked for inappropriate language, but readers might find some comments offensive or inaccurate. If you believe a comment violates our rules, click the report violation link below it.
<p> the signs were placed legally, many times near a "yes" sign or a sessoms sign. the ones who are childish are the ones who are stealing the signs. i'm not saying that they wouldve garnered enough voters to change the results, i'm more disgusted with the lack of civility on behalf of those who have nothing better to do than to steal election signs.
<p> the signs were placed legally, many times near a "yes" sign or a sessoms sign. the ones who are childish are the ones who are stealing the signs. i'm not saying that they wouldve garnered enough voters to change the results, i'm more disgusted with the lack of civility on behalf of those who have nothing better to do than to steal election signs.
<p> I can't believe anyone would be against light rail or any improvement to public transportation considering the traffic issues in Hampton Rhoads. There are over 1 million people in this area yet we have no professional sports teams, a sub standard public transportation system, sub-standard schools, and an over reliance on the government for jobs...Until the ideology in this area changes it will continue to be a second rate metro area.
<p> Only trumped by a disgraceful populace that believes leaving negative comments on the internet every chance they get will improve anything. You may want to stop reading "alt news" outlets that include stories claiming government conspiracies daily.
<p> local news rag monopoly does all your thinking for you, and represents the view of the world you have. Why the lot of you are so scared of opposite views is beyond me, unless the truth really does frighten you. I thought you leftists were all about 'diversity', but that's only if an opposing view is NOT presented. Obviously, 'pride' in this sense means only those who agree with you. Keep it up, you'll make a fine addition to the Huffington Pilot editorial board if you apply yourself. Umm, you aren't one already, are you? Hmm?
<p> So if VB is responsible for 17% of the funds just to build LTR, can you please tell me where the city that cannot pay it's teachers, police, city workers, firemen, etc., will get $170 MILLION, which is the estimated cost to build this debacle? Spend my money on roads, even increase my taxes for roads, because that is how the MAJORITY of us travel in VB, and please stop comparing the costs, because one mile of road can move thousands of people, while one mile of LTR can only move 220 max every 15 minutes. There is no comparison and the argument doesn't work.
<p> The difference between roads and LR is that roads take the majority of people to where they want to go with greater flexibility on time. If LR is so great, then all those who love it, like Mike Barrett, should be required to give up their cars and trucks and use LR and busses exclusively. Wonder how many are willing to do that....if LR is so great?
<p> The 220 passenger limit is based on the current frequency of service and the current number of rail cars available. If you want to move more people, add additional rail cars to each train and run the trains more frequently. Our city begins LRT construction in 2013. Expected ridership is expected to be 250,000+ per day on just one line. Clearly LRT can move as many people as an expressway. The secret is to run trains to places where people want to go and offer a good supporting bus system that efficiently connects to LRT.
<p> You obviously missed the "Our city begins LRT construction in 2013." part. Boston runs 248,000 daily ridership on the MBTA Green Line. Portland has half a million in population (easily surpassed by the combined numbers of Virginia Beach and Norfolk), and has 132,000 daily riders. The issue is, the opposition to light rail (yourself included, apparently) fail to grasp that people will ride the train against your will if the track goes places that they want to go. A large portion of 5,000 people a day from mostly Virginia Beach seem to have no issues driving to the edge of Norfolk, parking, and catching the train into downtown. How many more would park at Town Center, or somewhere further down the line to avoid having to drive to Newtown?
<p> the teachers, police, city workers, firemen, etc., get paid. and not a bad salary at that. not to mention the benefits. i have a family member working at the city and a friend who teaches, both make pretty good $$.
<p> Besides who wants to ride tiny cart carrying coolers, chairs, etc. That will eat up space where not as many people can ride. I rather drive to crowded beach in POV so I have convenience of leaving when ever I want to w/o crowd in my car and I can carry all the things I want w/o struggle of getting it on light rail. Fix roads before you even touch Light rail extension.
<p> So, fix roads. That's a constant issue, because once a road is repaired it starts to degrade and requires repair as soon as the next major road project is completed. Then, all of the "car fixated" crowd cry, moan, and complain because there's massive traffic congestion because there's sections of roads shut down, or tunnels are closed for repairs, or something else that makes inconvenience. All because there's no alternative to sitting in traffic. So the answer is continue to dump money into the never-ending cesspool that is road repair and maintenance, and don't do anything to alleviate wear and tear on those roads. I mean, who cares about teachers and firefighters when it comes to pouring money back into roads?
<p> I was more excited about this than the presidential election. That election wasn't really scary, this one I thought had a chance of going the wrong way!
<p> Thank you every single person who voted for this, you are truly looking out for this areas best interest. And thank you to anyone who didn't want it to pass who didn't vote. You too are helping everyone by staying home.
<p> All that remains for the final fall of Rome is the invasion by the Vandals, followed by the invasion of the Visigoths.
<p> The murder of our ambassador in Libya revealed to the world that clearly the barbarians are all around us ... just waiting for the incompetent leadership within the United States to weaken our once strong nation.
<p> But hey ... at least we be able to ride Light Rail from the Oceanfront to downtown Norfolk! That's something to look forward to, right?
<p> Your comments are arrogant and condescending. The overwhelming majority of voters in a huge turnout race voted to support light rail. Yet you feel that you are smarter than the majority.
<p> Face it, people want our city to grow and are happy with its leadership. Reid, you now have the opportunity to work from within instead of taking potshots from the cheap seats. If you are as smart as you think, then be part of the process instead of the minority opposition.
<p> The Progressives attack the "0ne Percenters" and paint them as evil, not paying their "fair share", bla, bla, bla ... but then the Progressives are all "ON BOARD" with a deceptive Move Hampton Roads PAC of lies ... paid for by who? ... the "01 percdenters" in Virginia Beach and Tidewater!!!
<p> A barrage of misleading radio, TV, and media ads working hard to fool voters into believing that a "Yes" vote means only to "Study" and "Explore" light rail- but a ballot question that asked voters to fund and build light rail.
<p> Those that are arrogant and condescending are the Bankers, Developers, Realtors, and politically-influental law firms that spent over $375,000, 'banking' that voters can be fooled.
<p> Not to mention all these real estate developer leeches on these boards who routinely denigrate that 'Top One Percent' but yet are SO desperate to be part of them via OUR tax dollars in boondoggles like this. The 'robber barons' of years past are alive and well in this day and age, and they're poised to rape and pillage the treasury so they can do what they do best and line their own pockets via the government fiat they have cronied up for!
<p> You keep talking about being gracious in defeat but are sickeningly arrogant in your giddiness of victory. There's a saying in football when scoring a touchdown, "act like you've been there before."
<p> The other thing that I find funny is that LR proponents are trying to shout down those against by saying that the vote passed, move on and be quiet. It's funny you take your own advice when LR was originally defeated by the voters? I guess we have come to expect that from progressives; do as I say, not as I do.
<p> This referendum was nothing more than a paper tiger for actions, decisions, and purchases already made and underway. Proponents can relish the victory and say, "See, I told you so." All opponents can do is just shake our heads. When the money crunch comes and questionable back room deals come to light, the finger pointing will begin afresh. The icing on the cake will be when federal subsidies begin to decline rapidly and states/locales are told to pony up their own $$$. As expected, citizens will be told to reach deeper into our pockets to keep this carnival ride afloat.
<p> Its unfortunate $1B is being spent to serve less than 1% of the population and in hopes of a gold vein of TOD filling city's coffers. My advice- play the lottery VB.
<p> No bad day. Laughing pretty much. Wonding how, just about 1/4th of citizens, the sheeple, walk into a voting booth and punch a button saying sure, Let's buy it. No idea what it costs, no idea how it will be paid for, no idea if it is the best option, but let's buy it anyway. But then kool-aid will make lemmings do anything.
<p> And with the snatch and grab capability gone from government, the developers blurry vision of TOD evaporated. Let's see if they will build it with their own money, Wanna bet?
<p> You and your ilk should put a sock in it. You clamored for a referendum for years and it passed overwhelmingly. By a landslide even. Be careful what you asked for. And, I might add, every single VBTA-backed candidate lost yesterday. No spinning this one.
<p> Actually I did not protest a referendum, I protested forcing a vote without having any facts. Facts, the very idea that scares the pants off the LRT at any cost crowd.
<p> The referendum was necessary, but should have been held AFTER the DEIS was published. But then that would put a sock in it for the LRT champions as facts tend to scare them to death. They prefer the kool-aid induced blurry vision fantasy and deceit, making up their own facts.
<p> I do agree with you that it would have been better to wait until after the DEIS was released. However, that would have changed nothing.
<p> Pro-light rail people aren't scared of facts like this from the National Transit Database that showed in 2011 on average it costs public transit agencies in the US 60 cents per passenger mile to operate light rail trains and 90 cents per passenger mile to operate buses.
<p> Unfortunatly it was not enough to cut through the kool-aid stupor and lies championed by the LRT at any cost crowd. But we tried. Now we all have to live with....and pay for years.....the decision made by roughly 1/4th of the citizens.
<p> Fortunatly nothing can be done until the DEIS is made public.
<p> And fortunatly nothing can be done until the "FEDS" can borrow, print, steal, or con enough money to pay for it.
<p> Which means at least I won't be paying for it, but I pitty the next generation that will be burried under the massive debt we have created. Not the just "FEDS", but at all political levels. Poor decisions, intep fiscal management, but then we have LRT, so the world is good.
<p> I didn't vote for light rail. Or for Sessoms. Heck, I didn't even vote for Obama. That being said, it's time to move on and make sure those who are now/still in office do their job and what's best for the people. It will be interesting to see what the next step is for light rail. Now that the referendum passed, will City Council/Sessoms patiently wait for the study to be completed and/or federal funding? Or will they continue to forge ahead (like they already have been doing) without waiting? Just because the referendum passed, doesn't mean we need to jump in with both feet. We need to make sure this is done right. HRT has not done enough in my eyes to fully gain my trust after the debacle with Norfolk light rail spending/funding.
<p> While it's significant and important that the citizenry maintain oversight and paying attention to the process and what City Council does (because I bet despite all of the talk going on in these comments, a majority of posters haven't been to a Council meeting to say any of this in person); it's also important to remember this when citing the "Norfolk debacle". The man who led HRT (who was agreed upon by ALL cities, and not just Norfolk) was the one guilty over the overruns, the lies, and the misinformation. The replacement started to point out "this number isn't right" and "there's no way this number is adequate", and told us (us being the people of Norfolk) about these overruns. A corrupt official doesn't represent the standard operation.
<p> The propaganda ads worked as I knew it would. Moribund Mike I am sure is doing cartwheels in his front yard. Let the tax increases begin! No doubt they will. Enjoy your victory. There is a glimmer of hope that as Obama has been re-elected, the country and the city will be too bankrupt to pay for it. That and the eminent domain amendment to the Virginia Constitution passed overwhelmingly. Congratulations once again. I tip my hat.
<p> And I figured the numbers would be a little higher in the "for" catagory, but that's okay.
<p> So what no one has been able to tell me is, how do we fund it?
<p> If the city has a shortfall again this year, had to raise taxes last year and that option will probably be on the table again this year, where do we get "our portion" of the project funds from? Schools? Police? Fire?
<p> And if the remaining portion is state and/or federal funding, where do they get THAT portion from? What has to get cut?
<p> And finally, where does the state and the federal government ultimately get the money to build this project from? In case you haven't heard, the state has to have a balanced budget and the feds are pretty much broke with 16 trillion in debt.
<p> The idea of bringing it to the city is being pursued by the very fact a $6 MILLION dollar study is already underway.
<p> The vote was pressed this year by the puppet mayor and his developer handlers to force citizens to decide without having any facts or real cost. Facts that if were known, the outcome might have been very different. But then the LRT at any cost crowd cannot deal with facts, they have to make up stuff to satisfy their blurry vision kool-aid induced stupor.
<p> You have to know in your heart of hearts that isn't a fair statement. There is nothing wrong with putting it to a vote regardless if they have all the facts or not. At the end of the day, you can't really build worth based on what someone else feels is incorrect vs correct. Besides, I'll say it again; it was to bring the idea of it regardless of what you ULTIMATELY may think will happen. How many regular people can really follow politics to the letter? But we manage to let them vote every 4 years and they certainly do not have all the information. So is the assumption is not to have elections unless one has ALL the facts. IMPOSSIBLE!!
<p> You state, "The vote was to pursue the idea of bringing it to the city."
<p> But, the ambiguous wording doesn't say that at all. It said, "Should the City Council adopt an ordinance approving the use of all reasonable efforts to support the financing and development of The Tide light rail into Virginia Beach?"
<p> ALL REASONABLE EFFORTS to support the financing and development. NOT an idea, a blank check.
<p> My hope now is that City Council SPENDS, SPENDS, SPENDS. Need to raise taxes to pay for it? GREAT! It's what the citizens approved.
<p> Honestly, I was too lazy to click back over, copy the exact statement, find the post again and paste it. So I went off what I closely thought it said. But I hear you, however, understand me as well. When its cut sliced and diced, you bolded it yourself "ALL REASONABLE EFFORTS". If it isn't reasonable, then LRT shouldn't come to VB. That's not really my debate, my debate stands on the article, not what *I* THINK will happen. If everything voted based on what they "THINK" will happen, we would have a bigger problem like most people tend to state. Fundamental flaw in debate, you can't follow the rules that are already set. In this country, we choose to vote on it then make efforts to make it happen. I didn't make this up, someone else did.
<p> The city will get their portion from real estate property tax increases in future years, just as Norfolk will begin to do next year when they increase their property taxes as proposed by Mayor Fraim, supposedly to pay for school construction. As far as the Feds go, they'll just borrow more money from China. I seem to recall a area in Virginia Beach that was known as 'Chinese Corner'. Maybe they'll resurrect that name and use it for one of the SGAs along the light rail line. Shucks, maybe we could sell the naming rights to the other SGAs or at least the light rail stations to help pay for them? Anyone want to buy naming rights to the gazebo sitting next to the Kempsville and Princess Anne intersection?
<p> It is very simple Jimmyf; 60% federal money, 20% state, and 20% local. We borrow the 20%, and service the debt with the increased value of the commercial real estate redeveloped around the light rail stations, exactly what Norfolk has done and has been done in cities throughout the nation. Denver does a good job of tracking TOD, and notes some $11 billion dollars worth of commercial real estate development within a 1/2 mile radius of the light rail stations. Frankly, the opponents simply won't listen to the common sense explanations.
<p> Well I'm not Mike, but I can help you out here. Most Federal funding for rail projects is not borrowed from anyone. Most funding comes from the Mass Transit Account which has its own dedicated source of funding. It is not tied to the General fund and therefore does NOT increase debt.
<p> No, the bankrupt Fed isn't going to borrow money to help VB build a train.
<p> First, VB hasn't even applied for the money and there is no guarantee that they will get any money if/when they do apply. The Fed rejects more applications than it approves.
<p> Second, even if VB goes all out, applies, and gets the money; then the money comes from the Mass Transit Account which has its own dedicated source of funding and does not pull money from the General fund. Most, although not all, mass transit projects funded by the Fed incur no borrowing by the Fed.
<p> Can the proponents of LTR please tell me why it is a good idea to spend one billion dollars so less than 1% of the population can now have an alternate means of transportation? I just cannot understand how this is a good idea, and how this is going to benefit the other 99% that will have to pay for it. Please, I await your response.
<p> I am certainly pleased with the result and attribute is mostly to the grass roots observation that light rail really works. Yes, some of us helped to promote it, but frankly, the weekend that 75,000 riders showed up to see how it works decided this referendum. And it is time for all of us to support the will of the people as expressed in the referendum. Much work remains, but the decision of the largest electorate ever to participate in an election at the Beach is a clear mandate for Council to move forward to plan, develop, finance, and implement the extension of light rail into Virginia Beach. I happen to think this one issue is the most critical one facing future development and would prefer light rail to extend to the oceanfront.
<p> Next time you drive by a road project, remember how you accused anything to do with light rail of "unbridled spending, fiscal irresponsibility, waste, fraud and abuse begin". If you can ignore that massive amount of waste (which you have NO problem paying taxes to cover, because it follows your social programming that ROADS ARE THE ONLY WAY TO TRAVEL!), then whatever perception you have of transportation that would get a couple thousand cars off the road should be easy to deal with.
<p> I don't believe the booth counters, I want to see the real numbers of people who voted, lol. They can't possibly be right if its about a segment of HRT because me and fellow pilot bloggers speak for everyone. I DEMAND A RECOUNT, lol. I dropped my coffe when I slammed my fist saying "I DEMANDDDDDDDDDD A RECOUNT", lol.......This is classic.
<p> Now we know why you didn't want it to go to vote...because you knew this would happen OR at least fearful. But the icing on the cake is, not only did they win, they apparently blew it out the market for "YES"....
<p> Another four years of Obama spending the country into bankruptcy and now Virginia Beach is going to do the same with this train. At least Mike Berrett will be happy, he'll be making money off this deal.
<p> No, Mike will make money on the development around the LR. We the taxpayers will pay for LR which like in so many other places, including Norfolk, will be a hole that VB throws our money into. But by then Mike will have moved onto another cause he can profit from. Wise up!!!!
<p> Sorry, that's not how it works in VB. The city approves the project, the developers (Mike) come in and build it with public funding and tax breaks, they make their money and move on to the next "big" project,the previous project fails and it's back to the tax payers to bail it out. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out who wins and who loses.
<p> "We the taxpayers will pay for LR which like in so many other places, including Norfolk, will be a hole that VB throws our money into. "
<p> While I won't deny that LR itself will never make a profit; all other cities have learned one thing. Buses are a much bigger hole that the taxpayers throw their money into than LR. And that's why cities around the US are building LR, because it costs the taxpayers less money long term.
<p> Here's just one example from Portland Oregon. As of 2011, their LR system moved 215,384,677 passenger miles and the buses moved 219,728,219; virtually the same. Yet they spent $222,887,559 operating buses and only $93,399,347 operating LR. Additionally, the LR riders paid 43.73% of their costs, bus riders only 24.04%.
<p> Now lie in it. You always thought a referendum would be the silver bullet. You and your ilk brought this about, Robert. And it was a LANDSLIDE, in a high turnout election no less. Widest possible sample of voters. The argument is over. Virginia Beach supported light rail in a LANDSLIDE. Whether you agree with it or not, it's over, and you know it.
<p> That, of course, won't keep you from crying about developers, Towne Bank, etc. and all manner of irrational things.
<p> Ok, I will admit that my opinion was in the minority. I still think that Light Rail is a bad idea for Va Bch but the majority has spoken. I will now bow out of the discussions on light rail and keep my opinions to myself. I hope that all of those who pushed for this system turn out to be right and that it helps the economy of Va Bch but will reserve my right to complain if it does fail. Good luck, all you Light Railers.
<p> As a victim of LRT in the suburbs of Baltimore, I have been warning you people for years about the problems and costs of allowing this train to be extended into VAB. Well, I guess you'll just have to see for yourselves. Looks like, as usual, the developers and politicians win. Congratulations Mike!
<p> I am glad to post, to interject some truth and reality with the facts, instead of the fantasy lies offered by blurry vision developer controlled moveHR.
<p> It's too bad the 100k voters were in a kool-aid induced stupor and were unable to vote with any sort of knowledge about LRT other than the lies and deceit from the commercials and ads provided by both the city council and the developers.
<p> but moved to Chesapeake about 9 years ago. I have not followed this story as much as I would have if I still lived in the Beach. That being said, I thought the referendum was to seek approval for a study on the light rail (an issue that has failed before and still done regardless). That is at least what the commercials were saying. This article is basically saying that the citizens have approved the light rail and ready to start building. Did I miss something? Perhaps the people voting were misinformed about what they were voting for. It's not necessarily my business anymore but I am curious.
<p> Virginia Beach needs to watch out, Chesapeake might get it before they do, all it they need do is build it right down the middle of the interstate, there are tons of new apartment complexes going up around Greenbrier Mall and you know how Chesapeake likes to spend money without accountability.
<p> ...ran on Obama's coattails; tax and spend, tax and spend, tax and spend... Virginia Beach will be a great city for tourists, just not a great city for its permanent residents, you know, the one's who are going to pay for all this touristy stuff.
<p> Light rail may serve tourists, but the voters approved it overwhelmingly because it provides another way to commute, shop, and get to appointments and events. In other words, just an alternative form of mobility given the severe congestion we face with no commitment on the part of the Commonwealth to do anything about it. Light rail, combined with land use planning, will create pedestrian oriented communities where residents can live, work, play, and shop, and where they can be connected to similar places by light rail. If tourists want to use it, all the better.
<p> Pedestrian oriented communities is a neat catch phrase, but I question how sincere the city truly is to provding for that. If they were committed there would be a pedestrian bridge constructed, or at least under design, to cross Virginia Beach Boulevard at Town center by now. You can expect this type of thing to be overlooked and repeated with future SGA developments, and the city's response will be we just don't have the money to pay for it.
<p> Regretfully, to John Moss, communication means speaking, not listening. At past budget hearings, he had so little confidence in his minions in the moribund VBTA that we wrote out their speeches for each member so they could read his words instead. This man, elected with just 16,630 votes, or just under 10% of the votes in this election, seems to think nonetheless that he is in charge. However, the failure of his position on light rail, the failure of any of his candidates to win any race this election, and his failure to rally the Council to support his advocacy for extreme enforced austerity reveal a politician who thinks he is a dictator or a king, nor a elected representative who is supposed to act in the public interest.
<p> I plan on bookmarking this page and taking note of everyone who is on record as supporting light rail. In a few years, when taxes go up to pay for the project and the Pilot writes an article about it, I'll compare the comments and commentators in that article to this one. We'll see just how supportive people are when they get the bill and realize what will be cut to pay for this train wreck of a project. Light Rail in Virginia Beach will be Alaska's equivalent of their Bridge to Nowhere--the line won't run anywhere near the bases, but the city will of course promise to "study the issue" once the money gets thrown at the initial build.
<p> What it should have said was: should Virginia Beach erect new tollbooths on I264 to pay for light rail to Virginia Beach?
<p> That is exactly what you guys voted for with the (paraphrase) 'explore all funding options' and you deserved every bit of it. Afterall, the ring of fire won't truly be complete without tolls on middle-class families in Virginia Beach.
<p> VB should erect toll booths on I-264 not for light rail, but simply so that drivers who are busy complaining about subsidies to light rail actually start getting charged the full costs for the ability to drive their cars.
<p> The people that drive 264 on a regular basis showed up to vote, that's what it came down to. Those that stood against expanding LRT were outnumbered by those that actually DO have to drive to and from work on a daily basis and use that rough logging road that goes by the designation of '264.'
<p> With Sessoms winning also, you can almost hear the construction equipment starting up now . . .
<p> I drive 264 daily, to and from work from VB, and the traffic has only gotten worse since LTR started, and just try getting off of some of the exits like Ballentine, which now backs up onto 264 when the slow moving trains block traffic. This is a bad joke, and commuters don't want this, because it is not mass transit and will evidentually suck all of the transportation funds dry. I really hope that we have council members that will look at the cost, and realize that this is not worth it.
<p> I don't think so. 60% willing to entertain the idea, 40% not. That's hardly overwhelming and an obvious attempt to manipulate the perceptions of those easily manipulated. We can't afford it, don't need it, and afraid to speak out about the consequences of having it.
<p> Fact - Light Rail is cheaper to build and maintain that asphalt/concrete roadway
<p> Fact - The largest employers in Hampton Roads support and asked for Light Rail (The Military)
<p> Fact - 20% of the cost to build Light Rail will come out of the pockets of the City of Virginia Beach. The remaining money will come from the federal government and the state. With funding cuts coming along the way, light rail will serve as an alternative to deteriorating infrastructure that we have all seen is not maintained properly.
<p> Fact - Light Rail will extend the options of HR citizens to travel within the 7 cities and beyond.
<p> Fact - Virginia Beach paid 10 times the value of the right of way from Norfolk Southern.
<p> Fact - The average mile of light rail is more expensive than the average mile of road.
<p> Fact - The Navy also asked us to expand the HRBT, I264, and our road projects. In fact, it listed those as higher priority than light rail.
<p> Fact - While 20-25% of light rail will come Virginia Beach, the cost of expanding feeder services will be funded 100% by Virginia Beach. Currently, the city does not meet the requirements for light rail by the FTA and will need to expand its public transportation infrastructure - which wouldn't need to be done otherwise.
<p> Fact - VB citizens shouldn't be taxed to provide services to other cities.
<p> $ 40 million was a lot, but there is no way you could buy a straight ROW through a mature City for close to $ 40 million....Plus, regardless of what we paid, we own it! It is a sunk cost, so you really cant include that at this point.
<p> I would argue that LR is more expensive to develop when you own the ROW....What would it cost to build a new road, tearing down homes and businesses and adding more asphalt? Also, once the LR is up, it cost almost nothing to add capacity....just add another car....Cant do that with roads!
<p> Like it or not VB isnt an island...We are part of a region, and we have to provide infrastructure....Are you aware that our roads dont end at the borders?
<p> "Fact-Norfolk and Virginia Beach taxpayers will fund &gt;75% of all future costs of LR"
<p> Unknown - It's too early to know that, or where The Tide will actually come in at. However, on average in this country light rail systems cover 30% of their costs and that number goes higher each year.
<p> --Light Rail is considerably more expensive to build than a road, and 1 mile of road can carry hundreds of times more people than 1 mile of light rail. --The military did not ask for Light Rail.The military said they are interested in the Light Rail issue and are following it closely.No military member ever officially endorsed Light Rail. --While 20% may be funded by "local" taxes, where do you think the federal government gets its money? Oh, that's right, your federal taxes! The federal government isn't handing out free money, that's your money! That's my money! Congrats on helping the federal and local governments continue to build up debt.
<p> "--Light Rail is considerably more expensive to build than a road, and 1 mile of road can carry hundreds of times more people than 1 mile of light rail."
<p> Actually it can go either way; there are times when the road costs more and there are times when light rail costs more.
<p> As for the idea that a road can carry more people, sorry, but NO.
<p> 1 highway lane can carry 2,000 car per hour X 1.3 people (average occupancy) X 6 lanes X 24 hours = 374,400. And that assumes all lanes are full in both directions all day long and traffic is moving at 55 MPH.
<p> So you have said over and over again, and so you will say forever. But of course, the fact is, our citizens and our voters want light rail extended into Virginia Beach. They have said so clearly and while you and the constant critics will never believe that, who really cares about what you think at this point. The voters have spoken, they knew exactly what they wanted, and they want light rail extended into Virginia Beach.
<p> So I did not have this on my ballot in Virginia Beach. It will be a waste of money just like in Norfolk. I actually went through my ballot twice so I could find it to vote no. We have voted no in the past yet they are bringing it back for a vote until it passes. Obviously the council is in the pockets of the developers. Fact it has not lowered Traffic on 264 in Norfolk. So why will it lower traffice on 264 in Virginia Beach. It is not practical to ride to work. Why would I waste 2 hours riding that thing to work when my drive is only 20 minutes? It is only about tourism and not about the local residents. Didn't the head of Norfolk's Light rail get fired over mis-management of funds?
<p> Its wonderful to know that the greater percentage of the citizens in Virginia Beach recognize that to move forward with integrating itself into the greater community of Southside Tidewater a light rail system connecting all is greatly needed. Now hold City Council's feet to the fire and get them moving on this greatly needed addition to the benefit of all. Congratulations.
<p> Well aalto, when I was working a poll yesterday in Kempsville, I had the opportunity to talk with hundreds of voters who stood in line to vote. I was working as a poll worker for the Mayor, but I also had a "I love light rail" sticker on my coat. Most of these voters who saw that sticker talked to me about why they support light rail; honestly, a few told me why they don't. But your assertion that voters did not understand the issue is simply out of touch with what these voters told me. The group of voters was as diverse as they come and yet the large majority suppported the extension of light rail into Virginia Beach. So you may think voters had blurry vision, but from my direct conversation, their vision was true and clear.
<p> Well aalto, you misread my post. They saw my sticker, and they told me that they want light rail extended into Virginia Beach, and of course, they were part of the large majority, over 62%, who voted that way as well. Mainstream residents of Kempsville needed no prompting, they told me why they wanted light rail. Their reasons were diverse, from the college student who used it to get to university, the downtown worker who used it to commute to work, to the nurse who used it to get to Sentara, and to the families that rode the Tide to ball games at Harbor Park. You give them no credit, but I do; they know exactly what they are talking about, and they want light rail extended into Virginia Beach.
<p> Why is light rail needed? We've got empty buses traveling all over the city. How will one line of light rail make any difference? After the novelty of it wears off, it will be empty too. It won't go where the commuters will be going and people won't want to give up their cars. What a waste.
<p> Wait a minute, I heard it was a vote just to "study" it. I heard it on radio and tv. Even read it in the newspaper that it was to allow a "study" to be completed. The study is underway as written in the VP article above and will be finished in Spring 2014.
<p> No action was approved by the voters only a "study." Or did somebody lie to the voters? LOL
<p> One thing is for sure. If The nay sayers had $400K to advertise deceptive ads on the TV and radio, the outcome may have been a lot different. Congratulations on your victory for this carnival ride. I hope you all who voted for this train wreck have the same attitude when you get your tax bills.
<p> This ballot should have also included another question: "Do you oppose tax increases?" and a stipulation that voting yes on both questions voided both votes.
<p> This nation is full of people who whatever reason fervently want things which they do not realize are mutually exclusive.
<p> In a related absurdity, yesterday those people re-elected over 96 percent of the incumbent candidates for seats in a Congress which they give a 21% approval rating too. They also believe their children are all above average, but obviously half of them are wrong.
<p> See, with LRT, the developer is going to build mega-billions of new TOD. And with TOD, the first check that has to be written is for taxes. So VB will be getting several billions in new taxes and soon instead of citizens having to pay taxes, we will all receive checks from VBCC.
<p> We will have the best most fancy school buildings. The highest paid fire fighters and police. And of course there will be no gridlock or transportation issues as no one in VB will need a car.
<p> I have converted.....I downed the kool-aid from moveHR and light rail now fanatics and all is good. I even think LRT cured my common cold!
<p> Generations of Americans have been raised to want more than they can afford ... Consumerism run amok! So why expect anything different now. And don't forget the median IQ (by definition) across the land is only 100 ... I'm not surprised by anything.
<p> ...which if my memory of history serves me correctly - none of which have ever turned a true profit and all of which become wards of the taxpayers every year of their pitiful existence. Light Rail, just another black hole for the taxpayers to feed.
<p> move to a blue state where unions run everything. In Virginia, thankfully, they do not. Tell me where does the firefighters union get off telling the city what they should do or not do. Seems to me they are stepping out of their paygrade.
<p> So aalto, since you are posting exactly the same criticism as you posted before the election, should we remind you that the voters in Virginia Beach just approved the extension of light rail into Virginia Beach by the margin of 62%to 38%? Yes, we should, it is as if you have simply ignored the voice of the electorate, which is a bit ironic since you have always indicated that you and the constant critics are the real voice of the people. So how do you explain this dicotomy? Is is possible that you just want it your way, and nothing, not even a strong endorsement by the voters, will change your opinion? Yeah, probably.
<p> Interesting comment there about moving to a blue state. I was just looking at how those regions that have light rail voted in the election yesterday. All that I could find were blue, including Norfolk. Maybe if you stay here another 6 or 8 years Virginia Beach with all its new population and density will be blue too.
<p> Sorry, but I must disagree. North Carolina was a Red state, but Charlotte is in Mecklinburg County, which voted Blue. The same goes for St. Louis, Dallas, Houston and New Orleans. All are in Red states, but are in counties (or a Parish, in the case of New Orleans) that voted Blue according to the info I've seen. I will concede that Phoenix is Red because it is in Maricopa County, which voted Republican. You are also correct about Salt Lake City I think since Romney is a Mormon.
<p> You are correct concerning my opening statement, but I went on in my following statement to say that I was looking at 'regions'. I can only say at this point that perhaps I should have been more specific. The bottom line is still essentially unchanged: Those cities, counties, or areas serviced by light rail voted largely Blue in the 2012 presidential election. The only two exceptions I know of were the two you correctly pointed out to me, Phoenix and Salt Lake City. You can interpret or qualify it any way you wish, but it is what it is. To take it one step further I will add my opinion that light rail and TOD will eventually put Virginia Beach in the Blue column.
<p> I suppose anything is possible with regards to what color VB will be in the future.
<p> Please let me point out one other thing regarding red/blue if you will. It was former President Ronald Reagan who created the Mass Transit Account to fund projects just like this.
<p> But regardless, I find it interesting that this must be a red/blue matter. Even more strange is the fact that it has become a thing that those who vote red oppose. Trains actually meet more of a conservatives goals than do buses. The most important one being smaller unions and therefore less people on government payroll, than the buses.
<p> I just have one (2-part) question for the Pro-Light Rail folks. Where are you planning to get the money for construction/operation...we are 16.2 TRILLION dollars in debt...I guess another BILLION doesn't matter right?
<p> I think the people as well as HRT have it all wrong all the way to city hall in Virginia Beach. I dont Have a problem with the light rail in Virginia Beach. I've tried it with my some from Newtown to MacCarther Mall. I believe the majority of all the traffic in Hampton Roads would greatly be reduced if we ran the light rail to the Naval Base in Norfolk and to the Peninsula first before we even attempt the oceanfront. Let's face it. The HOV lanes don't work and haven't worked since we borrowed the money from the federal government to put the HOV lanes in place. That's another usless loan that needs to be paid off. Run the light rail right down the HOV lanes to the Naval Base Norfolk, where 25,000 to 35,000 people commute to every day. Sincerely, Ro
<p> Many critics refuse to listen to ways the extension to light rail could be financed. Clearly, we have an example right next door in Norfolk. They spend about $340 M, of which $54 M, or 17%, was local money. They have had so much transit oriented development that the commercial real estate taxes from that development can pay the debt service and the cost of operations. The same can happen at the Beach; in fact, the potential for TOD is even greater here since much of the land along the old freight line is low value industrial property, that when redeveloped into high value, multi use, commercial propety, the real estate tax revenue will increase by as much as 10 times or more. That is how we pay for light rail.
<p> Mr. Barrett, by your own previous estimates, the additional real estate tax revenue has only added one or two million a year maximum to Norfolk's tax base after debt service and cost of operations are deducted. I dare say that as a result of this development the Virginia Beach Police Department alone will request additional manpower and equipment that will eat every penny and then some of this revenue. Mark my words.
<p> Well olddog, I have said, and been criticized for saying, that Norfolk has about $900,000,000 in transit oriented development already. At today's RE tax rate of $1.11, that produces about $10,000,000 in annual real estater tax revenue for Norfolk. The debt service on their local share of the costs is about $3,000,000 per year, and their share of operating expenses is about $6,000,000 per year. So Norfolk has about $1,000,000 extra to fund other projects. Now, more TOD is planned to occur, the best example being the Wainwright building at the York Street Station. So as TOD continues, light rail will produce a surplus for Norfolk to use for other needs. Not a bad deal.
<p> Providing infrastructure and service to support this growth is not a inexpensive undertaking. Are you aware the new animal shelter built by the city last year resulted in the Police Department requesting and receiving funding for 10 new postions to ataff it, at a projected annual cost of $1.4 million? This is to just to staff one new building. You can look this up in operating budget if you doubt what I'm saying. My point is the cost to meet the additional demand on city services that TOD will create will dwarf the additional real estate tax revenue it will create. We will pay more.
<p> Yes, of course, you make a good point. But you also ignore the fact that to citizens of Norfolk who have experienced growth for the last few years, this is a welcome sign, especially since much of this growth is from young urban professionals who want to live, work, play, and shop in their city. These folks pay more than just real estate taxes; they pay sales taxes, meals taxes, personal property taxes, utility fees, etc. which also increase Norfolk's ability to pay for needed public services. So while you are correct that their are costs as well, I think Norfolk is quite pleased with the overall impact of light rail on their city.
<p> Norfolk may be pleased, Mr Barrett, but based upon recent comments made by at least one Norfolk council person I don't think they've made a thorough economic assessment of the impacts light rail has had. Consequently, I believe your assertions about its impacts on Norfolk's financial picture are premature.
<p> Face the facts. Mikey and his buds won, you lost. It's over, there is no use protesting this deal any longer. The only thing left is to hope Mike is right about all that TOD tax money being available to pay for VAB LRT and the buses. Because if he is wrong, all of Hampton Roads is going to be on the hook.

