<0590361>
<http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tara-lohan/there-is-a-way-beyond-the_b_1536264.html>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A28OR0DDYOT4XB>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3NN9144OLETQP>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC - QU * N * ID: A2ZRYNS8R5JSY6>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC - QU * N * ID: A3ER967LRUC39Y>

<h> share this story
<p> As our political system sputters, a wave of innovative thinking and bold experimentation is quietly sweeping away outmoded economic models. In New Economic Visions, a special five-part AlterNet series edited by economics editor Lynn Parramore in partnership with political economist Gar Alperovitz of the Democracy Collaborative, creative thinkers come together to explore the exciting ideas and projects that are shaping the philosophical and political vision of the movement that could take our economy back.
<p> In September 2011, two Appalachian women traveled to Delaware to deliver a petition to the state's Attorney General Beau Biden. Betty Harrah and Lorelei Scarbro represented thousands who believed that the business charter for coal-mining company Massey Energy should be repealed. The company, mostly operating in Appalachia but incorporated in Delaware, has violated the Clean Water Act 60,000 times. An investigation commissioned by the governor of West Virginia found Massey could have prevented the explosion that claimed the lives of 29 miners, among them Harrah's brother, at the Upper Big Branch Mine in 2010.
<p> Massey, they contended, was simply too dangerous to be in business. But their pleas fell on deaf ears. The company plugs along, despite its shoddy environmental and safety records, churning out profits for its parent company, Alpha Natural Resources.
<p> To many, Massey is not simply one bad apple, but part of an economic system heavy with rotten fruit. Companies like Lehman Brothers, Bank of America, Countrywide, BP, and Walmart epitomize the relentless drive of corporations to maximize profit above everything else, including safety, fair working conditions, clean air and water, healthy communities, and common decency. In doing so, the very word "corporation" has become a dirty word.
<p> Forget bad apples, perhaps we should just raze the entire orchard, right?
<p> Our economy, like our environment, is in trouble. Limitless growth that drives the profit-hungry corporate model today is ecologically impossible. We simply cannot sustain business as usual and the cracks in our system are showing.
<p> "You look at the Arab Spring ... what looked like very stable regimes across the Arab world were suddenly shown to be completely vulnerable and brittle and I think that we may see the same kind of thing in our economy," said Marjorie Kelly , a fellow at the Tellus Institute and author of the new book Owning Our Future: The Emerging Ownership Revolution . "What looks massive and permanent and invulnerable, may show itself quite suddenly to be brittle."
<p> Maybe this doesn't sound heartening but it should. The corporate model we have today hasn't always been around and it doesn't need to remain the dominant way we do business. There is no reason we should be swabbing the decks of a sinking ship -- alternatives already exist and they are flourishing.
<p> "What's underway is an ownership revolution. It's about broadening economic power from the few to the many and about changing the mindset from social indifference to social benefit," Kelly writes. "We're schooled to fear this shift, to think there are only two choices for the design of an economy: capitalism and communism, private ownership and state ownership. But the alternatives being grown today defy those dusty 19th-century categories. They represent a new option of private ownership for the common good. This economic revolution is different from a political one. It's not about tearing down but about building up. It's about reconstructing the foundation of ownership on which the economy rests."
<p> Better Business
<p> A common complaint in today's world is one of disconnection. Our industrialized world has resulted in less contact with community -- we don't know our neighbors or who grows our food. In the same way that we've lost touch with a deeper sense of belonging and place, many of us have become disconnected from the soul of our work. The corporation-worker structure today is a master-servant relationship. We're slaves to the company, working longer hours for less wages.
<p> "Now mass layoffs to boost profits are the norm, while the expectation of a career with one company is long gone," William Lazonick wrote . "This transformation happened because the U.S. business corporation has become in a (rather ugly) word 'financialized.' It means that executives began to base all their decisions on increasing corporate earnings for the sake of jacking up corporate stock prices. Other concerns -- economic, social and political -- took a backseat. From the 1980s, the talk in boardrooms and business schools changed. Instead of running corporations to create wealth for all, leaders should think only of 'maximizing shareholder value.'"
<p> Our economy is dominated by a monoculture business model, Kelly says, driven largely by publicly traded corporations that have built in pressure from Wall Street for maximum short-term earnings. But a healthy, living economy needs biodiversity. We can find this if we begin to look around -- across the U.S. and the world -- where there are businesses designed not for maximum profit, but with a mission-driven social and economic architecture. One of these models is the "social enterprise."
<p> The Social Enterprise Alliance defines these organizations as "businesses whose primary purpose is the common good. They use the methods and disciplines of business and the power of the marketplace to advance their social, environmental and human justice agendas." And one of the defining characteristics is that "The common good is its primary purpose, literally 'baked into' the organization's DNA, and trumping all others."
<p> Here's an example. Remember Working Assets? Starting out as a progressive-minded credit card company in the '80s, it added phone service -- first long-distance in the '90s, then cellular in 2000 -- and now it has created the subsidiary CREDO Mobile . The company operates as a for-profit business, which is privately owned, with most of the employees owning the stock, so it doesn't have to bow to Wall Street pressures. They use their profits to help support causes they believe in -- so far the amount of money donated is $70 million and counting.
<p> Social enterprises can also be nonprofits, like Goodwill Industries , which last year turned donations from 79 million people into revenue that provided job training to 4.2 million people. And by reselling donated clothing, furniture and household goods, they divert an estimated 2 billion pounds from landfills every year.
<p> The idea of social enterprises is catching on in the business world in the U.S. with the emergence of Benefit Corporations, also known as B Corps , which are designed , "to create a new sector of the economy which uses the power of business to solve social and environmental problems." B Corps are all for-profit companies that have legal structures mandating that the company is designed to work not for maximum shareholder gain, but for the good of society and the environment.
<p> Currently there are more than 500 companies that have become approved B Corps and legislation has been passed in seven states (Maryland, New Jersey, Vermont, Virginia, California, Hawaii and New York) making them official entities. Some are larger corporations, such as Method Products and Patagonia, but many are also smaller companies and business-to-business operations.
<p> B Corps are similar in design to another kind of company called L3Cs. "The L3C is a hybrid between the nonprofit and for-profit models in that it is essentially a profit-generating entity with a socially beneficial mission," writes Ashley Holmes for GreenBlue . "Like an LLC corporation, L3Cs have the same liability protection and are not tax-exempt; however L3Cs have access to forms of capital that traditional corporations don't qualify for, all in order to further social and environmental goals. Americans for Community Development describe the L3C as a company that 'combines the best features of a for-profit LLC with the socially beneficial aspects of a nonprofit... the for-profit with a nonprofit soul.'"
<p> It's About the Workers
<p> B Corps and L3Cs create a legal foothold for a more sustainable kind of business. But other models get to the heart of the new economy as well and take up the important ideas of ownership and governance. Who gets to make decisions about how our companies are run and who gets to share in the wealth that's created?
<p> The U.S. helped create a system in post-war Germany for works councils, where workers are elected from companies to help manage how the business is run. "That means the councils help determine core issues, like when to open and close the store or office, who gets what shift, and who gets laid off or fired," wrote Jeremy Gantz in a review of Thomas Geoghegan's book Were You Born on the Wrong Continent? How the European Model Can Help You Get a Life. Germany also has co-determined boards, which give workers a voice in governance -- companies with more than 2,000 employees have half of their boards composed of workers.
<p> Empowering employees has proved a successful business model elsewhere. The John Lewis Partnership has been around in the UK since 1920 and has grown to over 30 department stores and more than 200 supermarkets, with a revenue of $13.4 billion. The business is employee-owned -- all workers get to share the profits and vote for the governing council and company's board.
<p> "This firm has a written constitution, printed up and publicly available, which states that the company's purpose is to support 'the happiness of all its members,'" wrote Kelly. "Now, let me pause and note: this is the only major corporation I've found that declares its purpose is to serve employee happiness. This is so, at JLP, not because it boosts returns for shareholders. At the John Lewis Partnership, employee happiness isn't a path to some other goal. It is the goal."
<p> Employee-owned companies aren't just a British anomaly. "In the United States, the National Center for Employee Ownership reports that there are 11,300 employee-owned firms, with some 14 million participants," Kelly found. "And in Europe, large companies have nearly 10 million employee-owners. Employee ownership has been increasing in such countries as Spain, Poland, France, Denmark, and Sweden."
<p> Organizations can be run with employee owners or other kinds of members. The London Symphony is owned by the musicians who play in it. Barcelona FC soccer team and the Green Bay Packers football team are community-owned. Mutual insurance companies are owned by policy holders and credit unions are owned by depositors.
<p> Employee-owned businesses and cooperatives have emerged in the green business world with great success, as well. Community-owned forests in Mexico support indigenous people, protect the environment and prevent illegal logging. In Denmark community-owned wind farms have jumpstarted wind energy, supplying 20 percent of country's power. In Minnesota, Minwind is a farmer-owned wind development company that's grown to 350 members.
<p> A New Vision
<p> There are different legal and social structures that can help to feed this growing new economy. In Quebec, a "solidarity" or "social economy" was created to help nonprofits and cooperatives, and it gets popular and government support. Spain is home to Mondragon Cooperative Corporation , which is a network of more than 100 cooperatives, employing 100,000 workers. This cooperative model helps support new business ventures. If a firm is struggling in its first few years, interest rates are lowered to help it instead of flagging the business as high risk and then jacking up interest rates like we do here, says Kelly.
<p> Supporting these new ventures is important, but so is holding the companies accountable to their missions. For cooperatives and employee-owned companies, like the John Lewis Partnership, where members get a vote and can elect those who make governing decisions (or run for the positions themselves), there is more power to make sure the company is keeping its word. With privately held businesses, accountability can be much harder. The B Corp certification process is one way that helps get around the blind spots -- certified B Corps have to prove themselves to a third-party organization -- creating accountability and transparency.
<p> So what can we do in the U.S. to spur the development of socially and ecologically conscious business? "I used to think we needed new federal legislation and corporate chartering and that we could drive change with state and federal law," Marjorie Kelly said. "And I do think we do need an articulation of what a company ought to be in law." But we have to go beyond that, she insists.
<p> "A teacher at Schumacher College posed a question: What kind of economy is suited for living inside a living being?" Kelly said. "It's not an endlessly expanding economy, it's not an economy that's designed to serve the few, at the expense of the many, it is an economy that is generative; that is life-serving in its purposes. How do we generate the conditions for life to continue and to thrive?"
<p> The answer will likely be not one thing, but a compilation and diversity of different business models that are consistent with supporting workers, protecting the environment, and serving the broader social good.
<p> This is a great article! "The answer will likely be not one thing, but a compilation and diversity of different business models that are consistent with supporting workers, protecting the environment, and serving the broader social good." This is exactly why my co-founder and I are building a platform to engage consumers in discussion to break apart the good and bad business models and their impact on our user's communities, the environment, employees and society. http://on.fb.me/KsHGZa
<h> Loading comments...
<p> The 99% movement has woken a sleeping giant. "We the People" know we are being rooked and we know it is time for a change.
<p> Capitalism has always been a canard, a fantasy bought into by free-market disciples(sheep). It was never based on 'Competition'...it was cronied, all the way...who you know, etc...
<p> Plus, we have been a Socialist/Capitalist meld for quite some time now.
<p> The next big change will be, as described by the Author, a mix of what works best for the Majority. Let's call it Modified Capitalism. There will still be copious amounts of wealth generated...just like today, but it will be spread out much more efficiently, to keep feeding the consumer engine.
<p> An Open Positive Feedback loop, instead of the Closed Negative loop we have today that only benefits a small, entitled, elite, aristocracy. Ahhhh...the winds of change are a blowin'...can ya smell it!!!!
<p> "An inherent assumption about capitalism is that profit is defined only in terms of monetary gain. This assumption is virtually unquestioned in most of the world. However, it is not a valid assumption. Business enterprise, capitalism, must be measured in terms of monetary profit. That rule is not arguable. A business enterprise must make monetary profit, or it will merely cease to exist. That is an absolute requirement. But it does not follow that this must necessarily be the final bottom line and the sole aim of the enterprise. How this profit is used is another question. It is commonly assumed that profit will enrich enterprise owners and investors, which in turn gives them incentive to participate financially in the enterprise to start with.
<p> That, however, is not the only possible outcome for use of profits. Profits can be directly applied to help resolve a broad range of social problems: poverty relief, improving childcare, seeding scientific research for nationwide economic advancement, improving communications infrastructure and accessibility, for examples -- the target objectives of this particular project plan. The same financial discipline required of any conventional for-profit business can be applied to projects with the primary aim of improving socioeconomic conditions. Profitability provides money needed to be self-sustaining for the purpose of achieving social and economic objectives such as benefit of a nation's poorest, neediest people. In which case, the enterprise is a social enterprise. " - Terry Hallman founder of P-CED
<p> jeff.mowatt: "An inherent assumption about capitalism is that profit is defined
<h> Loading comments...
<p> What is even more encouraging is that data on employee ownership companies show that they are both better for employees, who have 2.5 times the retirement assets as employee sin non-employee wonership companies, but also for companies, who grow significantly faster after becoming employee owned. Details on this research can be found at http://www.nceo.org/articles/research-em\\... Congress has provided companies with the main form of employee wonership (an ESOP on the U.S.) with significant tax benefits as well, and the policy is equally supported by both parties
<h> Loading comments...
<p> If my post from two hours shows up here, I'll appologize for the redundancy. I work for one of the largest employee owned corporations in the U.S. In 2006 we had over 7,500 employee owners. In late 2007 we laid off 5% of our owners. In 2008 we laid off another 7% to 8% of our owners, and both rounds of layoffs were in anticipation of the upcoming recession. Each year from 2006 through 2011 we had record profits in a recession. Moral of the story is, even employee owners are in it for the money.
<h> Loading comments...
<p> Tara,we need people like you in our congress..We have a lack of foreward thinking individuals,and are stuck with those that cant see the forest for the trees....Thank you for your well presented article.
<p> SIMPLE_MINDED_MAN: Tara,we need people like you in our congress..We have a
<h> Loading comments...
<p> Rubbish. The corporation (or something like it) will always evolve from any free market system, and a free market system is the only one that exists and is compatible with basic human rights to determine the value of our own labor.
<p> Doesn't mean the corporation has to be allowed to run roughshod. Instead, hold individual decision makers and implementers accountable for violations of the law.
<h> Loading comments...
<p> I work for one the largest employee owned companies in the US. Guess what! Beginning 2008 we laid off 5% of our owners. 2009 saw another 7% to 8% of our owners laid off. All of this was in anticipation of a recession and to keep costs low. Each year from 2007 through 2011 we have had record profits. It's still about profits.
<h> Loading comments...
<p> I think that in a competition between a corporation whose intent is to make as much money as possible, and a corporation primarily occupied with the happiness of its workers, "Hug-A-Rainbow, Inc." is going to find itself in deep trouble. Our society is based on competition, as any free society should be, and companies designed around competition and success are the way to go if you want to make money. I'm bothered by the idea you put forward that there should be a law dictating what a company should and shouldn't do. It's a clear infringement of personal liberty, and an admission on your part that your ideal economic system doesn't work.
<p> Bishop999999999: I think that in a competition between a corporation whose
<h> Loading comments...
<p> Personal liberty is meaningless without quality of life for the most involved. Competition is some thing we are conditioned to accept; it is not a hard fact of nature. And corporate capitalism is failing, miserably.
<p> quorthon: Personal liberty is meaningless without quality of life for the
<h> Loading comments...
<p> This is the kind of thinker I hoped for when Obama promised change. When I saw him stuff his Cabinet with old retreads , I realized there would be no hope generated through the political system,, which is just another tentacle of the giant vampire squid Wall St.
<p> As llong as an elite segment of financiers can enrich themselves disproportinately on our blood and productivity with the assistence of the government, any inroads into alternatives can be so incrementalized as to be absent.With the increase in government surveillence,for profit prisons and financial desperation any mass movement that threatens their profits can quickly be "disappeared" or coopted ,which is essentially the same thing.
<h> Loading comments...
<p> Thank you, Tara for this refreshing post;it is about time that the voice of reason begins to shine a light on the dim bulbs of commerce.
<p> Lack of imagination has been a chronic problem by the hollowed Ivy halls of the MBA mills. To change this attitude deficiency;we first need to change what we think of and how we think of it.
<p> The way we influence each other is to say something has a negative connotation like [Socialism]; social democracy is what seems to rise to efficacy in your article;but it seems that the word [social] has come to mean something less than ideal. i think that stems from a [me first] sort of mentality that has grown over the past decades into this corporate parasitic mentality.What we can extract from this thing;or that group has been a heavy burden on both the indigenous people and the Earth!
<p> A mindset that looks ahead at all the outcomes that can occur from an action;and not just the short term benefits;has the best chance at a balance between the balance sheet and posterity.
<p> The alternative is a future with diminishing returns;and ever more disparity.
<p> Bingo, and see how many US businesses go out of business when these workers make bad decisions.
<p> You can't compete with India and China by covering your eyes and ears and singing "lalalala I can't hear you!". When your "profitable" plant can only turn a profit if you charge $5 a widget and China can make the same widget for $1, you're in deep, deep trouble.

