<0555213>
<http://www.universityaffairs.ca/university-for-the-masses-may-be-oversold.aspx>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A2A2OF6MUITGFS>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3300UYCOCN5YI>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3I6HQOL7HCBGI>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A9K0CV70JWG1W>

<h> Featured Jobs
<h> University for the masses may be oversold
<h> Are students somehow getting smarter? I doubt it.
<p> by Christine Overall
<p> Four or five decades ago it used to be said that only about 15 percent of the population had the intellectual acumen to complete a university degree. University education was thought to be a privilege, not a right. When university was the preserve of the few, it??s not surprising that those from wealthy, well-educated families predominated. Working class students, not to mention poor ones, were grossly under-represented at Canada??s universities.
<p> Times change, and now a lot more people go to university. According to Statistics Canada , in 2006 nearly 4 million Canadians had a university degree ?? 24 percent more than five years earlier. This is, at least partly, a good thing if it means that the university system is bringing in a growing proportion of talented students from all socioeconomic levels, not just the top.
<p> Still, there are questions to raise about the academic implications of increasing rates of university attendance. While some growth may be due to the presence of gifted students from the lower rungs of the socioeconomic scale, that can??t explain all of it. What happened, in the last half century, to enable ever larger percentages to have realistic hopes of degree completion? Are students somehow getting smarter?
<p> I doubt it. A new investigation, Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses , by Richard Arum and Josipa Roksa, reports that 45 percent of American students studied did not show significant improvements in learning during their first two years of college, and 36 percent did not show signi_cant improvements over four years. We can hope these findings don??t apply in Canada, but I wouldn??t count on it.
<p> In its 2010 throne speech , the Ontario government said that 70 percent of all new jobs will require postsecondary education; it is therefore aiming to ensure that 70 percent of the province??s population has postsecondary education. The throne speech didn??t say what proportion of that 70 percent should be university graduates.
<p> But it isn??t at all clear how much higher the percentage of university-educated people can be. Suppose our federal government decides that 50 percent of all new jobs need an undergraduate degree. Will we just continue to send higher proportions of young people to university?
<p> I used to tout the benefits of university education for job preparation, and I still think that??s true for the strongest and most motivated students. For the rest, I am worried that universities perform, as Richard Vedder argues, primarily a gate-keeping function. Many jobs need a certain minimum level of reading skills, an ability to defer gratification and the capacity to keep to schedules. A university diploma in 21 st -century North America certifies that its holder can, more or less, meet those standards.
<p> So there??s a moral question here. What do these observations suggest about the responsibilities of faculty members? As a larger and larger share of the population attends university, we seem to have two choices.
<p> We can continue to dumb-down the curriculum to make it more accessible, by lowering the quantity of reading and writing, the difficulty of tests and the sophistication of lectures and assignments. University instructors are thereby co-opted into helping to make university no more advanced than high school.
<p> Or, we can attempt to hold the line, failing more students, dealing with larger numbers of student complaints and crises, seeing students avoid our courses if they possibly can and facing potential administrative reprisals (the hazard is greater for the non-tenured). That choice incurs career risks as well as personal and professional misery for faculty members.
<p> I??d like to think there is a third possibility. We can try arguing that perhaps not so many students should go to university. We can even challenge the idea that university is job preparation or, worse, mere certification of job readiness. Sometimes it is, but sometimes it isn??t. Sometimes a university education is about learning for its own sake, the love of discovery and the challenge of stretching one??s mind.
<p> The danger of this approach is that it could revive support for financial elitism, according to which only those with the best preparation ?? so often the product of parents?? status and income ?? are welcome. That would be a huge setback.
<p> The fundamental question remains: Should university education be primarily for the intellectual (not financial) and highly motivated elite, or should it be job preparation and certification for the masses? I don??t think it can be both.
<p> Christine Overall teaches in the department of philosophy at Queen??s University and is our regular columnist on philosophical issues in the academy.
<h> Other stories that might be of interest:
<h> Comments on this Article
<p> I share Christine's concerns. The "massification" of university has fundamentally changed the nature of the teaching enterprise. With declining demographics in many regions of North America, we're seeing institutions and governments focus on increasing participation rates and retention rates still higher -- not always diminishing the academic quality of graduates, but certainly making the teaching task more challenging.
<p> Another possible solution to this dilemma is of course mission differentiation, either among universities or among faculties at universities. Some institutions or departments could focus on an access mission -- like Athabasca University or UK Open University -- while others could retain their traditional academic selectivity. I think this is the best hope for a future that preserves some of the traditional strengths of a liberal arts education -- but it will require selective institutions with the courage to accept zero growth, or "negative growth", instead of continued expansion to meet government policy goals or to accommodate government funding formulas and rising labour costs.
<p> Posted by Ken Steele , Jun 14, 2011 6:51 PM
<p> Thanks for this take on things, Christine. Also, check out Cote and Allahar's book "Lowering Higher Education."
<p> The thing I fear is that if we make universities more selective (in order to filter out unprepared students), it will: 1) necessitate downsizing universities, which will have an effect on the already dire academic job market; 2) exclude students from working-class and poor backgrounds, who will, disproportionately, be the ones who are deemed unsuitable or under-prepared.
<p> I suppose I'd rather see a "B" education for a wide socioeconomic range than an "A" education for the privileged elite. If you think about it that way, it's not all that different from the healthcare debate going on in the U.S.: Excellent care for 60% of the people? (current U.S. model) Or, pretty good care for 100%? (Canadian model)
<p> Posted by abcde , May 6, 2011 11:12 AM
<p> OK, so when 90% of the population has a degree who will be a tradesman, janitor, or garbage collector? Nobody who paid over $50,000 for a degree and wasted 4 years learning nothing will want to do anything for less than $60,000 a year....
<p> University is a pyramid scheme. Keep enrolling more students at the base to pay for the top spots. I wish I hadn't wasted my money on my degree. Even my science degree was useless. I'm 33 and still paying student loans. DON'T do it! Travel the world for a year and you'll learn 1000 times more useful skills and understanding.
<p> Posted by J , May 2, 2011 9:25 AM
<p> University education now is a big industry, where students are customers. This kind of industry has very little with the real market needs and is very beneficial for universities; the more students university has the more money university will attract. As a result universities are intensively promoting propaganda like: soon 70 percent of all new jobs will require postsecondary and high education or that Canada soon will have lack of highly educated people (implying that universities need to accept more students and make more money) and so on and so on. Another result: many people with various university degrees are unemployed.
<p> Posted by Grigory , Apr 26, 2011 6:25 PM
<p> ??You cannot hope to build a better world without improving the individuals. To that end, each of us must work for our own improvement, and, at some time, share a general responsibility for all humanity.?_ Marie Curie
<p> Education is more than job preparation. An educated person hopefully is one that has more options for a happy and fulfilling life due to the nature of critical and creative thinking that goes on at universities. You get out of life what you put into it. So those that make the best of their university experience will gain the most. Many well educated people (university degrees of one sort or another) have done atrocious things to others as has one religious group to another.
<p> If the original intention of universities was to nurture more enlightened minds it seems that many universities now value technical and professional training/research over the liberal arts as it brings more money to such institutions.
<p> Perhaps it is not the students but the role of universities that are changing. Universities as job factories or places where we become better people because of our self-reflection and sense of discovery. Seeing the world through new eyes as they say. That is the hope for humankind and the purpose of universities. Professional schools can do the technical training for engineers, doctors and the like. What we need are educated people respecting the diversity of life and humanity on this planet. Perhaps that is the prerequisite for later job training.
<p> Posted by Peter Skipper , Apr 23, 2011 7:27 PM
<p> I enjoyed this thought-provoking piece very much. As a current university student, this affects me directly. I have two main responses: certainly, there are some students who come out of university with a degree but no real increase in education. I am in class with someone who boasts about earning Bs in classes in which he's "learned nothing." I am bewildered why he thinks this is a good thing; surely, at best, that makes these last few years a profound waste of his time. However, I would argue that this has always ever been so. I know of a handful of people (for sure the societal and financial elite of the time) who graduated from university in the early seventies who boast, in their own way, about having done as little university work as possible in amongst all the poker games and cocaine. What I mean to say is that there has always been - and likely always be - a certain percentage of the university population who is merely skating by. As more and more people attend university, the number of students who graduate with no real 'higher-learning,' despite what their degrees say, may well be increasing but the overall percentage of students for whom this is true is likely the same.
<p> Secondly, I wonder who it was who said only fifteen percent of people, fifty years ago, were intellectual enough to go to university. I can only assume it was one of the fifteen percent, a fifteen percent, as you point out, with financial resources. University attendance then as well as now had more to do with the ability to pay for it than with being smart enough to handle it. We all know plenty of "rich kids" with even elite educations who are by no measure but their birth members of the intelligentsia.
<p> Lastly - this is three points, not the promised two, which frankly I think casts into doubt my own right to be in university - while I think the lure of job prospects has people elbowing their way towards university doors, I take what may be an opposite view than your own. If it is the goal of getting a job that has people come into university, but once in university those same students are exposed, as they are, to all the wonderful new ideas, theories, knowledge, facts, and thinking that make university what it is - isn't that wonderful? Isn't it fabulous that we get to go to school - because our parents make us, or because we want a degree so we can get a job, or because we don't really know what else to do, or because we love to learn - and emerge, most of us, out the other side as more informed, more interested, and more dynamic citizens?
<p> I believe a more educated public is only good for the country. University should not be dumbed-down, but nor should entrance to it be more restrictive. Let us come; let us take from it what we will, as students always have ever done.
<p> Posted by Kyla Hanington , Apr 23, 2011 11:44 AM
<p> Your last paragraph is bang-on. I find it entirely too convenient that now that we've finally reached some degree of accessibility in higher education, we're going to declare that the quality is so low, the degree is worthless. The problem is we approached access by just adding MORE students to the system, rather than DIFFERENT students. But that would have meant that some of the children of the elite would not be able to go -- and no one is willing to accept that possibility.
<p> Posted by Deanne Fisher , Apr 23, 2011 10:15 AM
<p> Thanks for asking such interesting questions. I too wonder if university education is the new high school. Perhaps soon there will be laws enacted that say you can't drop out of university unless you're at least 21 years old... I jest, of course, but I do wonder what's going on. Is this a drive to be elite? Is it a drive to gain a competitive advantage? Surely the growth in university enrolment is not driven by the desire to learn for learning's sake. Great questions. I look forward to further debate on this subject.
<p> Posted by Grant McMillan , Apr 13, 2011 1:54 PM
<h> Post a comment
<p> University Affairs moderates all comments according to the following guidelines . If approved, comments generally appear within one business day. We may republish particularly insightful remarks in our print edition or elsewhere.

