<3171328>
<http://eagleonenetwork.blogspot.com/2012/11/in-this-case-ignorance-is-not-bliss-and.html>
<Rater 1: OP_OB *  * N * ID: A1FL1M3MOHLDRF>
<Rater 2: OP_OB *  * N * ID: A27PJPWGD1QVJP>
<Rater 3: OP_OB *  * N * ID: A2IVUW3VOHJL8J>
<Rater 4: OP_OB *  * N * ID: ARQ9DY4UL4WJ4>

<p> "A place where honest, serious and frank discussions on politics, current events, and social issues take place."
<h> Thursday, November 8, 2012
<h> IN THIS CASE, IGNORANCE IS NOT BLISS, AND COULD EVEN PROVE DEADLY...
<p> As they say, ignorance is bliss, and nothing proves that better than the recent re-election of Barry "Almighty". But in this case, the bliss to which I'm referring has got to be considered as being the most toxic, even deadly, strain imaginable. Now I suppose it would be one thing if Barry's socialist policies, both those already put into action and those that remain still on the drawing board, effected only those imbeciles who voted for him. But sadly such is not the case, because they don't. They also effect those of us who were able to quite easily see through his BS and those of us who are not on the receiving end of one of his, too many to count, government 'entitlement' programs, and didn't vote for him.
<p> For those of not suffering from this affliction, it becomes very clear, very quickly that the two directions that Barry is taking will not be reversible. One is the crushing debt he has accumulated and the other is his sheer incompetence in foreign policy. It is a fact, and one that is essentially impossible for his supporters to refute, that in four years Barry will increase the national debt by just about 60 percent. That debt already stands at over $16 trillion and it's on a rocket going straight up. Remember Barry's promise? "I will commit to cutting the deficit in half in four years." But not only did Barry not cut it at all, he quadrupled the deficit. It seems to be a promise his supporters are more than willing to cut him an inordinate amount of slack on.
<p> To get a better understanding of Barry's cockamamie vision of future spending, let's examine the TWO budgets he prepared in FOUR years. The budgets that, by the way, received zero votes in either the House or the Senate. And why do you suppose that was? Well, one reason might be the fact that his 10-year plans all had more than a Trillion dollars of new debt ANNUALLY that never ends. Now look, Barry has made it crystal freakin clear that he will keep borrowing in excess of a Trillion dollars per year. He will not stop spending as much money as he can humanly tax and borrow. Let's remember that under Barry, the United States has had a downgrade of our debt. It shouldn't take a brain surgeon to figure that the lower the credit rating, the higher the interest rate, just like your mortgage. DUH!
<p> Given the facts at hand, let's now project what another four years of Barry most likely will do. There is no evidence, whatsoever, that Barry will have any reason to borrow less and every reason to borrow more, lots more. And as much as his supporters would like to bury their heads in the sand, there are bound to be some pretty devastating results from this insane fiscal policy. For example, if you are 54 years old or younger and you think Social Security and Medicare are going to be there for you; you, my friend, are living in some sort of a dream world. Because it just ain't gonna happen Food stamps and Medicaid will be on life support. Think it can't get worse? Well, it does. Right now we have what can be called a perfect storm, and I ain't talking about something like Hurricane Sandy.
<p> Right now Barry is doing everything that is presidentially possible, and some things that aren't, to destroy the economy and his trusty partner in this crime, Fed chairman Bernanke, is printing Trillions upon Trillions of dollars. Bernanke says he'll keep printing money until he sees a recovery. Now that's reassuring. Someone really needs to remind Bernanke that as long as Barry is in office there isn't going to be a recovery, for one reason, because Barry doesn't want one. So what do you suppose finally happens when Bernanke has added untold Trillions to the money supply? We have the most consuming inflation in our history, yet another first for our worthless president What is happening is called monetizing our debt. Countries loan us money when a dollar is worth a dollar, then we pay them back when a dollar is worth 40 cents.
<p> Because world oil is priced in U.S. dollars, Barry gets us the $6 gas or higher, that he wants. Prices for energy and food will skyrocket, having a devastating effect on the poor and the needy, or those who were convince that Barry felt their pain. Actually he's the source of their pain and yet they thought it was a good idea to vote for him. When the party is finally over and the lights are turned out, we will have a $22 Trillion bill, then what exactly do you think happens? You don't have to speculate. Just look at what's happening in Greece or Spain. These countries have 24 percent unemployment, Draconian slashing of government budgets, people rummaging through the garbage for food, people rioting in the streets.
<p> I'm not trying to be a scaremonger, I'm really not, but look at the Arab countries. Look at the riot videos. What do you see? Do you see any old people? The streets are packed with 20-year-olds who have 50 percent unemployment. They have absolutely nothing else to do with their time. While that scenario is extreme, here in the United States combine 20 percent unemployment among some sectors, the government being broke, the largest single line item expense in the budget being the interest on Barry's debt, huge decreases in entitlements, illegal aliens taking Americans jobs, and then add the 200 million guns known to be in the country. It isn't a pretty picture
<p> The second irreparable harm that Barry is inflicting upon this country is his courtesy of his breathtakingly nave approach to foreign policy. And as much as Barry and his many supporters may wish that it weren't so, it is a fact that the World is a much safer place with a strong America and not a weak one. But that, I'm afraid, that's a whole other story, and one that would take far to much time to explain. But for now it is very safe to say that Barry and Hitlery Clinton essentially signed that poor ambassador's death warrant because of their pure stupidity. Up to and including the U.N. meeting, Berry was still telling the world that these people died because of a movie. He still can't bring himself to say that it was an act of terror. Sheer nonsense!
<p> And just to further prove that the ignorance of those who voted for Barry ignoring completely his atrocious track record on freedom during his first four years in the White House, here are s few predictions for what the next four years, (if America even lasts that long before ripping itself apart) may bring us: #1) Huge expansion of TSA and the surveillance state : Watch for TSA to expand its occupation of America by setting up checkpoints on roadways, sporting events, malls and "surprise" locations. Expect to see TSA agents become even more belligerent and lawless as they ramp up their sexual molestation of innocent victims. #2) Expansion of secret arrests of American citizens: Barry secretly signed the NDAA, legalizing the secret arrests of U.S. citizens while denying them due process. Barry also authorized secret "kill lists" that claim to authorize the U.S. government to assassinate targeted individuals. With his re-election now in place, expect Barry to start issuing a mass of "kill orders" that will even start targeting political opponents. #3) Acceleration of national debt blowout and endless fiat currency creation: Under Barry, the national debt experienced a massive blowout where Barry added trillions of dollars to the existing debt: www.USdebtclock.org . Right now, Barry is overseeing a trillion dollars a year in additional debt -- an amount that simply cannot be sustained without running smack into a financial catastrophe. It now appears that financial collapse it going to occur under Obama, not Romney. #4) Rapid expansion of GMOs and USDA collusion: Monsanto and the biotech corporations have thrived under the Barry administration thanks to USDA collusion and scientific fraud. Over the next four years, expect GMOs to dominate the U.S. food supply while Barry's White House rejects any effort to try to label GMOs on a national basis. #5) Increasingly dictatorial government health care: Obamacare will grow like a cancer, pushing Americans into mandatory vaccinations that inject children with mercury, formaldahyde, MSG and aluminum. Look for Barry's administration to wage even more wars against raw milk freedom , farm freedom and food freedom, all while requiring yet more foods to be pasteurized or fumigated under the guise of "food safety." #6) Immediate surge in sales of guns and ammo: Barry has promised to try to destroy the Second Amendment and deny Americans the liberty to own firearms. With his re-election, expect to see a massive surge in gun sales as more people attempt to stock up in anticipation of gun bans (or government gun confiscation). #7) Accelerated erosion of the Bill of Rights and civil liberties: Under Barry, civil rights, human rights and the Bill of Rights will be rapidly eroded. This goes hand in hand with the cancerous growth of government . As government expands its power and confiscates more economic resources, it simultaneously destroys individual liberties and due process. This isn't to say that Romney would have been any better, of course. Both candidates were philosophically invested in the rapid expansion of Big Government. #8) Continued destruction and looting of the U.S. economy: Under Barry, the financial looting of the U.S. economy by the global bankster elite will continue. The same would have been true with Romney, by the way. Also under Barry, America's unemployment rate will continue to head skyward, entitlements will be expanded, and the USA will be plunged into a tyrannical welfare state dominated by mindless zombies who have no cognitive grasp of reality. #9) A "giant sucking sound" of employers leaving America : Ross Perot was right! That "giant sucking sound" is the sound of employers leaving America in droves, hiring offshore workers instead of creating jobs in the USA. And why? Because employers can't afford to pay Obamacare mandates and still stay competitive in the global marketplace. #10) Stepped-up attacks on veterans and preppers: Returning U.S. veterans will continue to be vilified by Barry and his administration, to the point where even more veterans will be arrested as "terrorists" for engaging in fundamental preparedness strategies such as storing food, water, medicine and ammo. Watch for the liberal media to join the White House in painting veterans as "dangerous" individuals needing psychiatric medications. Never mind the fact that the media owes preppers a huge apology in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy.
<p> Finally, as I'm sure you can see, I'm of the opinion that things are going to be getting very much worse before we can have any hope of things actually getting any better. So having said that, I truly do hope that all of those who voted to re-elect this arrogant ass enjoy many sleepless nights over the course of the next four years. We had a chance to correct the mistake that was made in 2008 and instead we chose to make the same mistake again. And frankly I'm not sure who I'm more pissed off at, those imbeciles who voted for Barry or the 14 Million idiots who stayed home instead of going out to vote. And I'll tell you another thing, when the shit hits the fan, which it most assuredly is going to do, it is my fervent hope that it will be these same folks who are made to take the first hit, square in the face, of the resulting splatter!
<h> Number of Visitors to 'The Hangar' since 1 August 2010
<h> Our National Debt Clock
<h> Search 'The Hangar'
<h> About Me
<p> Spent 24 years in the U.S Navy. Served under 5 presidents from Carter to W. Retired as a CPO. Was in 4 P-3 squadrons, VP-8, VP-67, VP-92 and VP-62, 1 S-3 squadron, VS-41 and spent 5 years on Staff duty at CRPWL.

