<0343386>
<http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/jan/03/comment.mentalhealth>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A13E3C65NKK51I>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A28XFC7F3F89W8>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A2AT0G92TP7HCG>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3300UYCOCN5YI>

<p> By far the most significant consequence of "selfish capitalism" (Thatch/Blatcherism) has been a startling increase in the incidence of mental illness in both children and adults since the 1970s. As I report in my book, The Selfish Capitalist - Origins of Affluenza, World Health Organisation and nationally representative studies in the United States, Britain and Australia, reveal that it almost doubled between the early 80s and the turn of the century. These increases are very unlikely to be due to greater preparedness to acknowledge distress - the psychobabbling therapy culture was already established.
<p> Add to this the astonishing fact that citizens of Selfish Capitalist, English-speaking nations (which tend to be one and the same) are twice as likely to suffer mental illness as those from mainland western Europe, which is largely Unselfish Capitalist in its political economy. An average 23% of Americans, Britons, Australians, New Zealanders and Canadians suffered in the last 12 months, but only 11.5% of Germans, Italians, French, Belgians, Spaniards and Dutch. The message could not be clearer. Selfish Capitalism, much more than genes, is extremely bad for your mental health. But why is it so toxic?
<p> Readers of this newspaper will need little reminding that Selfish Capitalism has massively increased the wealth of the wealthy, robbing the average earner to give to the rich. There was no "trickle-down effect" after all.
<p> The real wage of the average English-speaking person has remained the same - or, in the case of the US, decreased - since the 1970s. By more than halving the taxes of the richest and transferring the burden to the general population, Margaret Thatcher reinstated the rich's capital wealth after three postwar decades in which they had steadily become poorer.
<p> Although I risk you glazing over at these statistics, it's worth remembering that the top 1% of British earners have doubled their share of the national income since 1982, from 6.5% to 13%, FTSE 100 chief executives now earning 133 times more than the average wage (against 20 times in 1980); and under Brown's chancellorship the richest 0.3% nobbled over half of all liquid assets (cash, instantly accessible income), increasing their share by 79% during the last five years.
<p> In itself, this economic inequality does not cause mental illness. WHO studies show that some very inequitable developing nations, like Nigeria and China, also have the lowest prevalence of mental illness. Furthermore, inequity may be much greater in the English-speaking world today, but it is far less than it was at the end of the 19th century. While we have no way of knowing for sure, it is very possible that mental illness was nowhere near as widespread in, for instance, the US or Britain of that time.
<p> What does the damage is the combination of inequality with the widespread relative materialism of Affluenza - placing a high value on money, possessions, appearances and fame when you already have enough income to meet your fundamental psychological needs. Survival materialism is healthy. If you need money for medicine or to buy a house, becoming very concerned about getting them does not make you mentally ill.
<p> But Selfish Capitalism stokes up relative materialism: unrealistic aspirations and the expectation that they can be fulfilled. It does so to stimulate consumerism in order to increase profits and promote short-term economic growth. Indeed, I maintain that high levels of mental illness are essential to Selfish Capitalism, because needy, miserable people make greedy consumers and can be more easily suckered into perfectionist, competitive workaholism.
<p> With overstimulated aspirations and expectations, the entrepreneurial fantasy society fosters the delusion that anyone can be Alan Sugar or Bill Gates, never mind that the actual likelihood of this occurring has diminished since the 1970s. A Briton turning 20 in 1978 was more likely than one doing so in 1990 to achieve upward mobility through education. Nonetheless, in the Big Brother/ It Could Be You society, great swaths of the population believe they can become rich and famous, and that it is highly desirable. This is most damaging of all - the ideology that material affluence is the key to fulfilment and open to anyone willing to work hard enough. If you don't succeed, there is only one person to blame - never mind that it couldn't be clearer that it's the system's fault, not yours.
<p> Depressed or anxious, you work ever harder. Or maybe you collapse and join the sickness benefit queue, leaving it to people shipped in to do the low-paid jobs that society has taught you are too demeaning - let alone the unpaid ones, like looking after children or elderly parents, which are beneath contempt in the Nouveau Labour liturgy.
<p> There is much tearing of hair across the media and advocacy of nose-pegging on these pages of the "grin and bear it" variety. In fact, there is an alternative. We desperately need - and before long, I predict we will get - a passionate, charismatic, probably female leader who advocates the Unselfish Capitalism of our neighbours. The pitch is simple. Not only would reduced consumerism and greater equality make us more ecologically sustainable, it would halve the prevalence of mental illness within a generation.
<p>  Oliver James is discussing Selfish Capitalism with Will Self, Madeleine Bunting and Stewart Wallis in three London seminars this month www.selfishcapitalist.com
<p> "In itself, this economic inequality does not cause mental illness. WHO studies show that some very inequitable developing nations, like Nigeria and China, also have the lowest prevalence of mental illness. Furthermore, inequity may be much greater in the English-speaking world today, but it is far less than it was at the end of the 19th century. While we have no way of knowing for sure, it is very possible that mental illness was nowhere near as widespread in, for instance, the US or Britain of that time."
<p> I suggest the promotors of psychobabble who flog these self help books with whacky unproven "Self Capitalism" theories, and bizarely call Blair and Thatcher "Blatcher", are far more to blame. The idea that people are desperately upset that about billionairs - most of whom they will never see or know - is absurd.
<p> I also don't believe we should go around telling kids they're a piece of crap that will never achieve anything in their lives.
<p> EvilTory - that's no doubt an important caveat. But, first of all, it is similarly doubtful that 'mental health' (so accurately diagnosed? - you acknowledge this question, I think) remains some sort of constant through time. And, second, I'm also vaguely aware of one (admittedly generalised) take on psychology broadly defined: it shifted from looking at the 'abnormal' to the 'normal' (perhaps it 'normalised' the 'abnormal' and forced us - or weaklings like me - to use these 'irritating' quotation marks). I do think that the 'therapeutic' ethos is rather a recent phenomenon. Thorny questions abound. (Though I'm more than open to any critiques of my rather simplistic and ignoramus take).
<p> I honestly don't know, not being any sort of expert. But as far as I know, just because diagnosis of mental health problems has increased rather dramatically, that doesn't necessarily mean that there are more out there. Maybe someone who really knows about psychoanalysis can answer the question better than you or I.
<p> Damn it! I hate the fact I have lived into my 30's and can expect to live at least another 4 decades on average. I am more likely to see my kids grow up and their kids, and maybe their kids too run around and cause mayhem. That's not too bad its the thought of millions and billions of other people enjoying the same thing fills me with disgust - hang on will just get me sedatives - glug!
<p> Damn you capitalism. Just over a relatively short century ago I would have enjoyed the fact that most other scumbags my age (30+) would probably be dead by now (on average would have struggled to have reached the nice age of 5). And if they were lucky enough to pass the age of thirty, they would have been all rotten-toothed and illiterate, easy to spot and discriminate from proper people like. And if they weren't controlled with some deadly ailment that neither Dr nor hospital would or could treat - then back breaking toil and low calorie food or a nice bit of warfare would sort them out on a daily basis.
<p> I tell you, what has capitalism ever done for the likes of me eh??!??!? And don't mention the mass production of extremely safe in overdose selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors - that wouldn't be fair....
<p> All these masses living longer healthier and wealthier lives than ever before its sick!6 billion of these awful things on the planet.. There must be some way of curbing their grubby aspirations and desires - some way of returning to an average age of death at 35 and keeping the lower orders hungry, uneducated and begging the upper class leaders of society to validate their existence - God's busy, I wonder if Gaia will help the worried well become proper sick like...
<p> I have neither the time nor the inclination to address all the stupidities of this article, so I'll just pick one: does anyone else find it amusing that an article which is supposedly about the evils of consumer capitalism begins with a plug by the author for his own book?
<p> "Damn you capitalism. Just over a relatively short century ago I would have enjoyed the fact that most other scumbags my age (30+) would probably be dead by now (on average would have struggled to have reached the nice age of 5). And if they were lucky enough to pass the age of thirty, they would have been all rotten-toothed and illiterate, easy to spot and discriminate from proper people like. And if they weren't controlled with some deadly ailment that neither Dr nor hospital would or could treat - then back breaking toil and low calorie food or a nice bit of warfare would sort them out on a daily basis. " You are, probably without realising it, talking about people living in selfish capitalism of the purest kind. In reaction to which, Twentieth Century British voters elected a series of governments which gradually constructed the welfare state which, in turn produced the benefits for which you (no doubt for religious reasons)thank capitalism. Whether this results from ignorance or fanaticism (or, as in Martin Smith's case, a bit of both) is not clear. It may very well be that you were privately educated and thus never informed that the feudal system has been dead for several centuries.
<p> Its the rat thing -- its not materialism or wealth or anything similar that causes the problems, its chronic insecurity. The Faustian bargain (?) that Thatcher made with the English people was to hand everyone lottery tickets in exchange for their shared wealth. Some won, most didn't.
<p> The most important possession a person can have is time and the ability to enjoy it. People can be persuaded to give this up now for the promise of more in the future -- that's the whole point of TV shows that take ordinary people and make them into figures of fantasy -- but eventually people realize that no matter how fast they run, no matter how hard they work, they're stuck, they're tired and there's no way out except to get blind drunk or something. That's where you get your depression from (and the charismatic leaders and stuff).
<p> I've found that young English relatives of mine seem to be obsessed with having and consuming the right 'stuff'. They act as if they're wealthy -- in the tabloid sense -- but they're actually quite poor (in fact the poorer they are the more pressure they seem to be under to appear rich). Its a very screwed up culture.
<p> Oliver James writes in a style more akin to the world he is condemning, but his critics on this thread are intellectual pond scum. James does not condemn capitalism, or promote socialism, he merely points out the damaging effects of consumerism and the fact that other Western European nations manage to run capitalist economies and relatively happy societies by reining in the worst excesses of captialism.
<p> I heard the author speak on Radio 4 this morning. Whoever it was that was talking as well was a complete moron; I was sorry for listeners having to put up with the resulting brains vs idiot that the BBC no doubt had to artificially engineer.
<p> While I agree that Selfish Capitalism is bad, it's not principally for the reasons that Oliver discussed. Its far more profound; basially, my thesis is that Selfish Capitalism is a howling, embarassing failure.
<p> It failed to work; the engineering profession, on which, beyond doubt, ALL the achievements of the last twenty five years have been based, is in a dreadful, dilapidated condition in EVERY country where Blatcherism has taken root. We cannot begin to compete with Korea, let alone, China as far as industrial capacity is concerned; we are an international model of absurdist inefficiency and a mockery of what we used to be, working hours or not, in fact, given that we have longer hours that every employer has to sign consent forms for on employment, our actual productivity is low beyond humour.
<p> Since the Alvey project (yes, my memory goes back that far), all attempts to giddy-up British innovation have been met with staggering inertia and inability.
<p> If we had a future, we certainly don't have much of one in our native population. We could have done of course. We still could; brave young kids still ARE THERE but our record on training is an abomination. In Australia? The USA? Surely it's better? No, you can forget that. The number of graduates in electrical engineeing is now so low (thanks to student loans and abysmal wages) as to not make the profession sustainable. Some colleagues in Europe told me that out of 100 engineers retiring, only 25-30 join the profession each year; Thanks to Selfish Capitalism, no employers spend a penny on this any more and cannot be seen to do so (there may be exceptions, but they are exceedingly rare).
<p> Go and pick up a copy of the Signal Processing Transactions of the IEEE, for instance; find out how many authors come from the Selfish Capitalism countries. You will find the same story everywhere in all the various branches of hard edge engineering.
<p> This has had the most dire consequences for the societies hosting Selfish Capitalism. There are very few opportunities available for clever kids to look to; the industrial base is so small now. The financial sector, of course, has been grain fed and is a grotesque, malformed, swollen beast, lurching from side to side and in the final stages of complete collapse.
<p> We cannot even begin to afford the luxury of telling the truth about inflation; God help us if we ever got above ourselves and started to do the arithmetic. The fact that we have a treasury that has the bare arsed effrontary to quote a figure in single digits, let alone 2.1%.... suggests that the guys in the suits are doing more drugs than anyone else put together.
<p> The fact that we are in this hallucinogenic, cocaine induced state of total delusion is only part of the story, but I reckon it is where we should be touching base. The West has failed and has been failing since 1979. All Blatcherism did was to systematically exhaust what resource was already there; human resource particularly.
<p> It nurtured nothing; it fed back nothing; it planned for nothing; It had no heart, no soul, and no imagination.
<p> You will now witness the end game over the next decade. Your kids will leave, if they possibly can; they will exit the leafy suburbs; they will leave the inner cities, if they get even marginal qualifications. Nothing can stop this now, except for some latter day version of emmigration controls a la Wilfred Greatorex's 1990.
<p> It had to happen in the end. Go and read a book on maths or physics tomorrow, and the day after that read Dickens, or Chaucer, or something from our own true past, and weep over what we have thrown away.
<p> Insecurity is probably a cause of mental stress and breakdown; jobs for life, by contrast, made for a cosy mental state. We seem to be half way between the American system of hire and fire at will, and sclerotic Europe where no-one dares employ anyone because it's impossible to get rid of them if they prove useless. If you make jobs completely secure, as in the public service, the result is good for the mental health of the favoured employees, but bad for the supposed consumers of their services, who have to endure soviet-style treatment from civil 'servants' who have no fear. Difficult to get it right, but perhaps we aren't so far away.
<p> my private - or otherwise education - has led me to believe that the global average age upon death was around mid 30's at the beginning of the 20th Century (best estimates and all that, we died like flies before the age of 5 you see. And it had been thus for centuries.
<p> Capitalism tweaked is still capitalism. Except today we have capitalism but no capitalists. They all died an intellectual death in the 1930's, and given electric shock therapy to stooge fight the Cold War. And have since perished in the Cold Peace. In fact no other 'c' word produces more disgust today, except maybe that for the ladies privately educated part and communism.
<p> I have no love of capitalism, it is vastly inefficient in applying new technologies, and still fails to provide every family on earth at least one home, at least one car, wi-fi technology, an overseas holiday at least once a year, constant electricity and running hot and cold clean water. Not to mention the fact it fails to provide a GP around the corner for everyone, and a hospital at least hour away. You know the things you and I take for granted thanks to the pursuit of profit...
<p> I don't fetishise that capitalism as the zenith of human exchange (I mean waiting around for obselete capital to return a profit before implementing better technology is dumb) , but I acknowledge where my daily breads and milks have come from - and thanks to capitalist need for a better educated and healthier workforce I am able to expect the best of everything to everyone, not hand wringing apologies for a system that does not do enough for everyone...."Please sir can I have some more?"
<p> What is selfish capitalism? Do I have to buy the book? That's bit ironic. It's hard to respond if I have to guess as to one of the foundations of the argument.
<p> It seems that it's capitalism as practiced in English-speaking countries, but not by Germans, Italians, French, Belgians, Spaniards and Dutch. What do those countries have in common? There are lots of possibilities.
<p> It could perhaps be less individualism, and more family and community involvement. But then just about any country will beat Britain or America on that score. I don't know all the mental health rankings. Are we better off than Russia, or Japan?
<p> What mental illnesses are we talking about? Depression I could see being relevant, but schizophrenia?
<p> The main point seems to be that it's associated with "Affluenza": "placing a high value on money, possessions, appearances and fame when you already have enough income to meet your fundamental psychological needs". I can see how that would be harmful. Placing a high value on things that aren't fundamental can't be helpful, by definition. But how do we know when we've met our fundamental psychological needs?
<p> I guess my problem is that there is a bit too much jargon here. Too much branding, too many plugs for seminars, books and websites. I particularly don't get why "capitalism" has to be brought into it. The "good guy" countries are capitalist too, right, so you could just call it "selfishness". Is that really it?
<p> Selfish capitalism is capitalism with "affluenza". Affluenza is placing too much value on status markers. Is it selfish to place too much value on status markers, or is it just an unhealthy cultural trait? Maybe an arms race we've gotten caught up in due to lack of community interaction?
<p> Why not just say, "we place too much emphasis on status?" Not so sexy, but less confusing. We don't have to assume that we place too much value on status because we are selfish, or because we are capitalist. Those might be reasons, but we won't assume them.
<p> "We desperately need - and before long, I predict we will get - a passionate, charismatic, probably female leader who advocates the Unselfish Capitalism of our neighbours. The pitch is simple. Not only would reduced consumerism and greater equality make us more ecologically sustainable, it would halve the prevalence of mental illness within a generation"
<p> There's some kind of disconnect with that solution. Some politician is going to come along, and put in policies like the governments of Germany, Italy, France, Belgium, Spain, or possibly the Netherlands (hopefully including coffee shops). That will mean people will worry less about status, leading to reduced mental illness. Does that really sound likely? Isn't social and economic policy quite different in most of those countries?
<p> I think you'd be better off trying to address problems at the local level, rather than by bringing in a Sarkozy or a Merkel (do they even agree on anything?). You don't change a culture in a political term.
<p> I do think that (as Stephen Metcalf said on Slate once) : "In a time of exponentially proliferating images of the luckier-than-thou, self-possession is not wholly possible, and the specter of our many unlived lives can be debilitating." However, I'm not sure of Oliver's analysis or solutions.
<p> MartinUsher's comment concerning chronic insecurity was sound. It very much seems that there is a greater compulsion to be seen as a good consumer of fine things. Young English relatives here, quicker to talk proudly of their new sixty inch Plasma screen, than their first-born child. Or a cheerful admission at being unable to visit a large city without having purchased one non-essential item for personal enjoyment. The housing market here is appalling for first-time buyers, but at least we can view the news reporting the government bail-out of Northern Rock, on our widescreen, high-definition Plasma screens.
<p> I'm not sure about the mental health argument. But I find modern life less and less attractive. I have never worshipped the god of Mammon, so the "greed is good" capitalism unleashed by the Thatcher/Reagan has largely passed me by.
<p> Of one thing I am fairly certain. The capitalist world as we have known it is reaching a crisis. Finite natural resources - oil especially, but other commodities too - are being depleted at an alarming rate. Scarcity sends prices up. Add to that the fact that especially in the English-speaking world, the recent boom has been financed by mountains of debt, that cannot go on for ever. The credit crunch will continue to bite - seriously. Boom could rapidly turn to bust.
<p> So all you suckers out there who have bought the myth that "more" is necessarily better, and who crave after your Andy Warhol "famous for 15 minutes" could be in for a rude awakening.
<p> Capitalist greed is robbing the planet of a future. When finite resources are used up, capitalism will experience an almighty crash. And when global warming melts the ice and sea levels rise, many great cities will sink beneath the waves.
<p> Good article. He could also have said that, although we work harder and longer we produce rubbish. In order to pump up profits our goods have a shorter life. Clothes, furniture, electronic gadgets - all made in a hurry and going to landfill in a shorter and shorter space of time. Pride in your work is just a joke these days.
<p> If posters were to read that carefully before commenting, I think they'd find their understanding of the issues significantly advanced. Certainly, most of the points in the right-wing posts above will be more than answered if people click the link and read the article there properly.
<p> Sorry, did it say "Thatch/Blatcherism" in the first line when this article first came up? I can't imagine I'd have missed it, but maybe I'm wrong. In that case, I guess I *do* know what selfish capitalism means. But I still don't quite get why it needs renaming. And did the US have "Thatch/Blatcherism"? Or is it "Thatch/Blatch/Clinton/Dubya/Howard/Chr\\... Isn't it possible to get away from labels and talk about specifics?
<p> In this article, Oliver writes: "An average 23% of Americans, Britons, Australians, New Zealanders and Canadians suffered in the last 12 months, but only 11.5% of Germans, Italians, French, Belgians, Spaniards and Dutch."
<p> So the numbers have stayed the same for the last twelve months? I note the terms have changed slightly, but the numbers remain. I do wonder why Scandinavia isn't there.
<p> It's not that I disagree violently with Oliver, but I wonder if he isn't putting things in this vague way (not defining "mental illness", grouping together several very different European countries) to help get to a particular conclusion.
<p> One point here I'd like to see more on is the Faustian bargain of individualism: a large absolute range of possible choice and achievement can make restrictions on that choice more painful. I'd also like more detail on differences in small-scale social organization in the different countries.
<p> Hopfrog - the data on epidemiological transitions - how and at what age people die, is interesting. But don't confuse the average life expectancy at birth (around 30 years in Dickens' times due to the high infant mortality pulling the average down), but if you survived childhood, then you had a reasonable chance of living to 60, a bit like in the 1950s. The difference was that as more and more people got decent housing, free health care (it was started free, then the government needed money to build a nuclear bomb and rather than admit this, they said the NHS was too costly and prescription charges were introduced. I think that was around 1952 or so), better nutrition more children survived childhood and hence the average age of death - and therefore average life expectancy at birth increased. Life expectancy at birth increased throughout the 20th Century, most gain occurring in the first half before antibiotics and vaccines made a big impact, implicating better social conditions. Around the late 1960s life expectancy at birth began to level out and I wouldn't be surprised if it doesn't start to decline again in the near future. It can change pretty fast as witnessed by Russia when the USSR ended. A fairer distribution of resources generally leads to less social basis from mental health problems; the two are loosely correlated but other factors are important. Generally, even in the wealthiest sectors, relative wealth differences predict health differences. But more than about US$100 per week doesn't seem to be associated with greater levels of happiness. Less than that is definitely associated with lower levels of happiness as survival issues kick in. Greed screws.
<p> When Oliver James wrote on CiF about selfish capitalism at the launch of his book, I asked whether he'd be donating the money generated by the book to mental health charities? No answer yet.
<p> It's a good hypothesis, one worth exploring. But I'm sorry, there's no clear statistical link between mental health and the form of economic and societal organisation. Epistomology is dull stuff but put simply, there's no strong correlation.
<p> For example, what is mental illness? The diagnosis varies in the EU and James allows self-diagnosis, if people say they're stressed in a telephone poll, they can be labelled mentally ill. Look at more serious evaluations of mental illness and the story's not so clear. Denmark, Austria, France and especially Finland have the EU's highest suicide rates, three times the rate of the UK.
<p> If you have the time, see European Neuropsychopharmacology (Volume 15, Issue 4, August 2005) Size and Burden of Mental Disorders in Europe, for a serious study.
<p> By all means discuss materialism and mental illness, they're important matters. But James's arguments are lazy "pop-science" and ultimately, to learn more, we need real analysis.
<p> James spoils a correct thesis by referring to low levels of mental illness in China and Nigeria. The reason is that mental illness normally increases with wealth, because wealth increases the ability to diagnose and the motive to have it declared.
<p> If you are a poor family in Nigeria you gain nothing by having your barmy aunt sent to the shrink. Firstly there are no shrinks in the slum or village, secondly there is no money even to pay the bus fare, and thirdly there is nothing that can be done afterwards. On the other hand if your rich uncle in the US is a bit eccentric there are not only loads of shrinks to diagnose and certify him but also a burgeoning sector of mental health homes to take him off your hands in return for a certain proportion of his income which you have now managed to get control of. Opportunity and motive.
<p> There is a vast amount of mental illness in the third world, and it comes down to what Martin Usher so perceptively described: insecurity. And of course insecurity is also responsible for an increase in physical illness.
<p> My concern for our mental health comes from the deprivation of the familiar. Children still scream and shout, thank goodness, when a favourite toy is taken away, but the rest are far too often enveigled into replacing perfectly good things around them.
<p> Great article ... on page 11 of the paper today. it attacks the pseudo science of various TV and lifestyle gurus. This is exactly where this sort of nonsense belongs.
<p> I lived in Germany a few years ago. In Germany, people are treated for low blood pressure. As an illness, this is unknown in the UK. I therefore conclude that in all German-speaking countries (total number = 1), practising Rhineland capitalism (number still = 1) there is an infinitely greater number of people suffering from this condition. I'd better go off and write a book...
<p> I'll change my view of course if James cites some peer-reviewed articles giving a proper analysis of the data, and including other data such as prescribed drugs (where I bet France leads the way).
<p> To suggest that things are fundamentally different, and better, on the continent than they are in the English speaking world is nonsense, but I agree nevertheless with much of what Oliver James writes.
<p> What we are ALL suffering from (English speaking countries perhaps showing some of the worst symptoms) is not so much a disease, "afflulenza", but a fundamental maldevelopment of society, which goes back to its very beginnings in prehistory, but is very difficult for us to recognize, because we are all totally immersed in, familiar with and dependent on society as it HAS developed and now IS. Historians even interpret and rationalize history so as not to undermine (but rather to support and justify) present-day society, since no one (least of all an academic with his or her highly privileged "niche") can be objective about something they themselves are so utterly dependent on.
<p> To understand what has gone so badly wrong and, if we fail to recognize and act on it, within the life time of today's children, will lead to the collapse of our civilization (as we consume and degrade the very resources and natural systems on which it depends), one must break the taboo which has been placed on it (for historically understandable reasons) and look at the development and present state of (western) society from an evolutionary and biological (i.e. Darwinian) perspective.
<p> Human nature and behaviour evolved in and are thus adapted to life, and the Darwinian struggle for survival, in essentially TWO different environments: our extended family group (with which we identified and cooperated, developing strong bonds of affection, loyalty, etc.) and the external, natural environment (including other, RIVAL, groups of humans) which we feared and, in cooperation with our "own group", sought to exploit.
<p> In modern society these two environments have been merged and confounded (THIS is the disease, or maldevelopment, as I prefer to call it), the nation state and free-market capitalism having developed specifically to exploit the confusion thus created and the artificial socio-economic environment in which, fatally misplaced, but blinded by familiarity and dependency, we continue our dumb-animal struggle for survival and advantage.
<p> 'Readers of this newspaper will need little reminding that Selfish Capitalism has massively increased the wealth of the wealthy, robbing the average earner to give to the rich. There was no "trickle-down effect" after all.
<p> 'The real wage of the average English-speaking person has remained the same - or, in the case of the US, decreased - since the 1970s. By more than halving the taxes of the richest and transferring the burden to the general population, Margaret Thatcher reinstated the rich's capital wealth after three postwar decades in which they had steadily become poorer.'
<p> Am 95% in agreement. I'd be 100% in agreement if Mr James would come right out and say what is clearly implicit in these two paragraphs, i.e. that the nastiness in question is to be found not in capitalism per se but in a largely regressive tax system. I believe myself that if this system continues then the chance that global warming will be arrested is virtually zero.
<p> It is difficult to read James's argument and not wonder whether he has just "found" politics. When speaking on the subject, he sounds like he's a frustrated teenager, and his use of "Blatcherism" is just adolescent.
<p> On the substance of the argument, there is little to go on. What does 'mental illness' mean? What is 'selfish capitalism'?
<p> Yes, there are major concerns about the atomisation of our society, and yes, on a relative basis there are many baby boomers who have seen a relative decline in some areas of their lives (however, golden-ageism is rampant in this debate), but James's use of mental illness looks somewhat desperate rather than adding substance to a difficult debate.
<p> Well I live in Italy, but I don't see that capitalism here is less selfish than in Britain, capitalism is hellishly selfish everywhere. What is different possibly here in Italy is that wages are lower and more uniform, giving rise to more social cohesion. Rich and poor go to state schools together, and probably the family system is stronger. Britain has been cursed by an influx of dirty money (from Russia and elsewhere) which has led to a go getting scramble to riches, and those left out feel very marginalised. Its nothing to do with selfish or unselfish capitalism (whatever that means) Tony
<p> A perfectly legitimate piece for the Guardian to publish, given its traditional leanings. Makes a pleasant exception to most of the other stuff on Cif, which is not 'liberal' in the true sense of the word.
<p> I agree with the premise: that the social fabric of US/UK/OZ/NZ is disintegrating faster than a baby boomer discards their once cherished 'ideals.' The rich get richer etc...
<p> I do wish people on Cif would come to grips with what 'materialism' actually means though:
<p> Quick googling should do the trick (avoiding wikipedia, the ugly sister google is always trying to sell for a date, and taking the next link down)
<p> "Materialism can refer either to the simple preoccupation with the material world, as opposed to intellectual or spiritual concepts, or to the theory that physical matter is all there is. ***This theory is far more than a simple focus on material possessions.*** It states that everything in the universe is matter, without any true spiritual or intellectual existence. Materialism can also refer to a doctrine that material success and progress are the highest values in life. This doctrine appears to be prevalent in western society today."
<p> I've tried to draw attention the simplified version of materialism that is often advanced as being the actual thing.
<p> The truth is that anyone who dismisses the possibility of meta physicality is a materialist. It amazes me how these same people use the term in the pejorative sense to scorn compulsive shoppers, without pausing to consider how it applies in a much more meaningful way to them.
<p> For western society to recover it will come down to each individual doing some serious work on themselves. Unfortunately the hideously hypocritical culture laid down by the baby boomers will take a while to dissipate.
<p> In the words of Keith Ward, people need to recover a 'feeling for the gods.' And I firmly believe that there will be a return to religion in the coming years. I've picked mine (having gone from atheist to taoist to finally Christian)and I wish you all the best in finding or continuing yours.
<p> Another A-level essay, full of meaningless generalisations to support a preconceived left-wing idea.
<p> I've lived in France for years, and one thing that hits you in the face here is the endless grumbling and angst. Countless newspaper headlines about how the French are terrified of the future, and endless books by intellectuals (translation: hack journalists who gesticulate excessively during television debates) about how everything has gone to the dogs. By comparison the British strike me as an extremely jolly bunch.
<p> So let's try and fit French moroseness into a preconceived right-wing idea, shall we? In France, the state intervenes far too much in the lives of its citizens and cushions them too much from the rough edges of life, to which one is more exposed in more free-for-all, capitalist, Anglo-Saxon countries. (What? You mean I can't work a 10-hour week and retire at 27? It's a scandal!) As a result, the French sink into a kind of morose passivity, where they expect everything to be done for them and sulk when it isn't. Ergo, too much socialism is bad for your mental health.
<p> Hey, maybe I could expand that idea into an article. Does the Daily Telegraph publish A-level essays as well?
<p> Perhaps the opening paragraph should read 'There has been a startling increase in the 'number of diagnoses' of mental illness in both children and adults since the 1970s.'
<p> If you are one of the one in four of us who will be diagnosed as suffering from some kind of mental illness in your lifetime and your time has already come and everyone around you is making 'whooh whooh' noises and calling you a nutter, you will no doubt have been subjected to additional trauma by the bewildering array of disorders, syndromes, conditions and states on offer at your local psychiatrist. In order to aid understanding, the dictionary says that a condition is an illness or medical problem and a state is the condition of someone or something. A disorder is defined as a disruption of normal physical or mental functions and a syndrome is a group of symptoms which consistently occur together and/or a characteristic combination of opinions, emotions, or behaviour. So now you know.
<p> As I wander around trying not to become hyper in this market of conditions and syndromes that I can be labelled with, I wonder where all these products and brands originated. Ooh look. There's a bi-polar one that used to be known as manic depression. Isn't that the one that Mr. Churchill had: the one that gave him the energy to inspire this nation to victory during the war? Hmmm. We could do with a bit more of that, especially around here, in terrorist Leeds. And there's a social anxiety one (with new improved shyness). Then there's all these new personality disorders. In modernised England that now means if you dare to exhibit a shred of personality then you are plainly disordered and we can't have that now, can we boys and girls? So let's bring out the tablets, the pills or med, nice user friendly words to describe dangerous brain warping chemicals that make you fat, stupid and ill.
<p> Much of this nonsense comes from from the land of the over-weight and brain-dead, another tentacle of the American corporate bloat-fest intent on dragging down the quality of English thought to the level of a McDonalds' marketing executive. It was English madmen, out in the midday sun, together with some Scottish loonies, who came up with the ideas that built an empire, forged an industrial revolution, invented railways, the computer, the jet engine, the hovercraft, progressive rock and the world wide web. It was English nutters who inspired the American and French revolutions and it was English metaphysical fruitcakes who have elevated us to our greatest heights - from Donne and Bunyan through Blake and Morris to Tolkien and C.S. Lewis, who was an Ulsterman, but worked from Oxford, so he counts.
<p> So let's hear it for English madness, our greatest national asset and the source of our creativity, strength and, thank God, our sense of humour that has seen us through many dark hours. We are English and it is our right to be crackpots as long as we harm no-one.
<p> I`ve disagreed with James before and when I have done so, he has accused me of taking him too seriously, so I think we all know what that means! However, much of this article has a familiar ring to those of us who have worked in the mental health field for many years. It is clear that a significant number of posters on this thread have either not read the article carefully enough before getting all defensive, or do not understand James` use of the term `consumerism` - he is not attacking capitalism per se (he is, ater all, selling books, etc.) but the kind of discontent it causes in some cases. His comment about the healthy worry of affording a house will come as a great relief to first-time buyers, no doubt, but he could have used this as a way into an examination of our need as a culture to own rather than rent.
<p> I think I can explain that Nigeria and China reference. A year ago, when the hardback came out, I made fun (in The Times) of the fact that those two countries were more unequal and yet had lower rates (as reported by WHO) of mental illness. I know that James read it, because he wrote another piece here referring to it.
<p> Don't worry, I'm not going to write another piece for them on this, but I do think this is delicious:
<p> "With overstimulated aspirations and expectations, the entrepreneurial fantasy society fosters the delusion that anyone can be Alan Sugar or Bill Gates, never mind that the actual likelihood of this occurring has diminished since the 1970s. A Briton turning 20 in 1978 was more likely than one doing so in 1990 to achieve upward mobility through education."
<p> So we're using a Harvard drop out and a man who left school at 16 as examples of upward mobility through education are we?
<p> Except that over the same period of time we've also seen an increasingly entrenched system whereby people who believe that it's not possible to improve your life by sustained effort, personal responsibility etc. have established themselves in control of education and the media.
<p> Certainly, it can't be good for boys to think that if they can't be Beckham they're nothing, but it also can't be good for them to be perpetually taught that no effort they make to get a good education will do any good. Or that normal kids' "bang, you're dead!" play is a sign of some kind of Original Sin. Being told by social workers that you can't be expected to work (or even do simple things to make your life less chaotic) can't be good for mental health.
<p> Can anyone suggest a control society where Thatcherist (for want of a better term) philosophy dominates all sectors of society? Or, come to that, one where no-one takes responsibility for anything?
<p> I suspect the second option would be so unpleasant that it never actually comes into being.
<p> Let me agree with EvilTory that this is just over diagnosis and nothing else. The idea that China does not have as much if not more mental illness as Britain is absurd. It is just that it would be normal in China. Especially ADHD is a disease that only exists in the West. In China, and I bet Nigeria too, they would be called naughty and beaten until they learnt to read and otherwise behaved. Which is better I wonder? I notice Britain does not have mass sectarian killings like Nigeria.
<p> Let me also add the absurdity of calling Capitalism selfish. Capitalism thrives on trust. It rewards trust. It punishes untrustworthiness. Think of Britain today and China in 1960. If your supplier produces shoddy goods in Britain you change suppliers. There is pressure on all people in the market to produce valuable brands - things people trust. In China in 1960 if your supplier produced low quality goods what could you do? Complain? Waiters could literally spit in your food in front on your face (and by the 1970s often did) and there was nothing you could do about it. Capitalist societies are full of private charitabhle and community organisations. America, for all its faults, leads the world in groups like Rotary, the Masons, the Elks, the PTA and any number of a thousand other voluntary groups based on trust. The Soviet Union is marked by nothing like it. Nor is China. You can see the pernicious influence of those Communist years in the fact that Chinese companies, State and private, are happy to poison Haitians, Americans dogs, to starve Chinese babies to death by producing baby formula with no nutrional value at all, and infect entire villages with AIDS by reinjecting them with infected blood. It will take China centuries to undo the damage of Maoism.
<p> pandachops, the engineering profession in China is a disaster. It produces little IP of note because every other company would steal it in a second. Britain still retains a lot of highly skilled engineering. Which is why a Chinese company bought Rover - for their engineering skills. if I went and picked up a copy of the Signal Processing Transactions of the IEEE, for instance I might find few authors from the Selfish Capitalism countries, but I'd find most of them working there.
<p> Over the past 200 years, capitalism has had a unique window of opportunity in which to thrive. Technological developments have enabled us to exploit the planet's finite mineral resources to the limit - while, crucially - stimulating exponential rates of consumption by promoting greed and waste. It's been great (for some people) and most of us have enjoyed higher standards of living than any of our ancestors could have dreamed about. But, it's an historical anomaly. The resources upon which all this 'wealth' is based upon, are quickly running down, and Capitalism will ultimately fail having, ideologically, nowhere else to go.
<p> The argument in this piece reminds me of the "There is no crime in the Soviet Union" arguments of my youth or "There is no unemployment in communist countries".
<p> It seems that everything is fine and dandy outside selfish capitalist UK. Lets ignore or forget about the elevated suicide rates in Sweden, Finland and Japan. Lets forget about improved living standards for most people since 1979 because lets be honest the trickle down effect did happen for some people. It worked for people who were prepared to get off their arses. It worked for people who refused to live in the imagined socialist paradise of the past.
<p> Some people are old enough to remember the glory days of state owned utilities. Some people remember how petty minded and nasty a lot of public servants were. Read Viz magazine. Do you think that Postman Plod was a overstated caricature? He wasnt.
<p> What Im trying to say is that people were not happier in the old days. Its just that nobody cared to keep score of the mental health problems of the past. But ... of course I forget that this is The Guardian where it is an article of faith that any bad thing is the fault of capitalism / western ideas / white people / individualists / supporters of freedom and responsibility etc.
<p> Since the late 70s I have wanted to place Thatcher on trial in the Hague for her crimes against the British people, including the introduction of 'selfish capitalism'. Her policies were profoundly anti-social, that is, against society, and in favour of the individual.
<p> Being held to account might finally bring home to Her the enormity of the harm she brought to Britain and its people. Burning at the stake would seem appropriate, after a proper trial, of course.
<p> Don't worry. With the new president of France, no doubt we will be "catching up" shortly. Even the emergency service doctors are on strike now. Poor things. It doesn't actually make any difference, as they are simply "requisitioned" like tractors in wartime. Short of collectively resigning, they will have to continue putting up with 24 hour days 7 days a week, and no overtime.
<p> In my view Oliver James is as greedy and evil as he is mis-informed. He has taken a complex and important subject, mental health, and used it as a pop-science, money-making vehicle for his own financial ends.
<p> I don't believe his main concern is mental health or economics or morality - he has hit on a money-spinner and he is going to milk it.
<p> To take but one example of his ignorance: he says that (poor) citizens in the US have become worse off these past two or three decades. NOT SO. Inflation measures tend not to capture technological improvements, which are substantial over time. A car made in 2007, for example, is safer, more comfortable, and greener than one made in 1970. SO you are not comparing like-with-like.
<p> But OJ doesn't give a damn - he knows his anti-capitalist balm will always sell among the intellectually feeble.
<p> Britain probably has the highest level of teapots in the developed world. Is there a link between teapots and mental illness?
<p> Seriously, as I said above, there's no evidence that really distinguishes causation and correlation. Indeed, the correlation between the degree of capitalism and mental health itself is quite weak. It would also help to distinguish "capitalism" from "free-market liberalism" as, remember, they're quite distinct in theory.
<p> Let's debate materialism, happiness and mental health but park James's arguments to one side, for they're just unproven "pop science".
<h> Most popular on the Guardian
<h> Today in pictures
<p> After advising tourists against travel to the cities of Jammu and Srinagar for nearly 20 years, the Foreign Office has lifted its guidelines after a fall in violence. So, Dal Lake and part of the Valley of Kashmir, one of India's most beautiful regions, are once again open to visitors

