<0098964>
<http://tucsoncitizen.com/arizona-lincoln-republican/2012/11/12/something-republicans-just-need-to-learn/>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A19R04IXWA4ZLX>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A1G8ATI1XR2HWT>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A1OQIXAU1SEJ4P>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A32UO0DUJ1NX5J>

<h> Something Republicans Just Need to Learn
<p> Growing up my father (a Mexican national) taught me the importance of having three basic priorities that should govern my life. These priorities were to always place God first, family second, and work/school third above everything else. After the spanking the Republicans  received this last election day, it seems as if we as a party could benefit from considering these priorities, especially when it comes to the family.  I understand that not every Hispanic person is the same, nor is every Mexican American for that matter. But I do believe that these priorities are important and relatable to the Hispanic and Latino community. While the GOP tends to do a great job at defending religious liberty and is the most active in the defense of the unborn, it seems to neglect one of the most important priorities -- family and fails miserably at communicating the third -- work/education.
<p> If Republicans wish to gain back the support of the Latino vote, especially that of the Mexican Americans in many southwestern states, then we need to end the rhetorical attacks on their families. Hispanics are not going to vote for any candidate whom they  think is going to deport their abuelita or go after their parents, husbands or wives.  They also will not support candidates of a party who want to end birthright citizenship. If we are to be the party of family values which I believe we are, then we must let go of our rhetoric and reach out in good faith to work towards some form of immigration reform just as George W. Bush tried to do. Conservatives seem to think and fear that Hispanics are inherently liberal. I disagree. The Democratic party does not hold our values; but neither do they pander to the immigration enforcement only crowd as republicans tend to do. I am not calling for open borders or lax enforcement. I am suggesting that we use our enforcement resources on the border and go after the criminals and the cartels, meanwhile, finding a humane way to keep families united and help build a better future for America and the Republican Party. When the Republicans finally embrace pro-family policies and cease the rhetoric that has been perceived as anti-Hispanic, then the door will be opened for further dialogue.
<p> After we reach out in good faith, then we, as a party, must communicate better toward Hispanics and Latinos in general. We need candidates and organized groups to reach out and educate them on economic issues. Both employment and education are top priorities for many Hispanics, but if they do not see the connection from the policy played out in their daily lives, then we are failing to communicate.  Republicans must do a better job at explaining how raising tax rates and continued deficit spending will negatively impact them. While at the same time, Republicans need to articulately respond with fiscally sound economic policies that will lead to economic growth and rising incomes. Moreover, we need to defend the free market and explain how it is their inherent right as human beings, created by God, to choose how to spend and use their money. Republicans should also educate Hispanic voters on  the myriads of federal regulations and taxes that are inhibiting his or her ability to freely choose, by decreasing growth and upward mobility.
<p> Furthermore,  we need to work harder at  defending educational choice for parents. We have an over regulated education system that sends billions of dollars to bureaucrats in the Department of Education, while spending on students and their classrooms  are both neglected. Moreover, Republicans can definitely win on the issue of school choice. School choice is not a federal program; it is the right for parents to have the choice whether to send their children to public, private or charter schools or even homeschool if they wish. Parents should be afforded all options because each child learns differently and no one size fits all federal education program will meet those needs. We must oppose federal one size fits all cookie cutter educational standards and move  towards state rights  and parental rights. Education is a pivotal issue for each and every Hispanic mother and father. This goal will be hindered if  we do not reach out and clearly articulate to Hispanic voters our educational polices.
<p> Thus, we must do better at articulating our values to the Hispanic and in particular  the Mexican American community. I do believe this goal is attainable and I am optimistic.  Just recently, conservative talk show host, Sean Hannity , came out in favor for immigration reform and the Speaker of the House, John Boehner , said he is "confident"  that the Republican congress can reach a deal on an immigration reform bill. Again, we are the ones who need to reach out in good faith and restart the dialogue. Therefore, I pray that the GOP will heed these words and consider the three top priorities of this frustrated Republican: God, family, and work/education. If we do anything less, failure is inevitable.
<p> Editors note: as with all blog postings that appear with a by-line, the opinions presented are the author's and not necessarily the positions of Cafe Con Leche Republicans.
<p> Thomas Martin Salazar is an Arizona leader of the Caf con Leche Republicans. Thomas was born and raised in Arizona. He holds a Bachelor's degree in History from Grand Canyon University and is currently working on obtaining a MDiv in Biblical Communication from Phoenix Seminary. Thomas has also served as the Grand Canyon University College Republicans Vice President and interim President (February 2007-April 2008) and as a Maricopa County Republican Precinct committeeman (August 2009 -- August 2012).
<p> We must still have standards. Our border is ours. If you want to come here, come through the FRONT DOOR, stand in line and get your green card. That being said, we need to improve our way of processing people in this country. People WILL SELF deport. They do that all the time, that's why we don't have 50 million illegals here. Some go, some come, more go, some come back. But if they are willing to PAY a coyote $5,000 to bring them on a dangerous trek across the desert, WE should set up a VIP line. For $5K, stand over here and get your card! That will help defray expenses. As for seeking their votes, you can't get them if you don't talk to Latinos as people. We aren't all the same, some of us have been here for generations before the IRISH came to Ellis Island. My grandchildren are fifth generation and I'm sure that's a few generations short of many Latinos in this country.
<p> http://twitter.com/CafeConLecheGOP Cafe con Leche GOP
<p> For most who came here illegally, there never was a line to stand in. No one pays $5K and places their lives in the hands of criminals if all they had to do was pay $100 and wait a month or two for a work visa. We issued 1.7 million work visas last year, most of those subject to strict and arbitrary quotas and extreme bureaucracy. It's not coincidence we had 7 million 'guest workers' above and beyond the 1.7 million. We issued visas equal to less than 20% of our labor needs for guest workers.
<p> Offer a line to stand in, and most will enter through the front door. We've had the same problem throughout our history. Whenever our legal system has been disconnected from economic need, massive illegal immigration has resulted. The same thing would happen if we lowered all highway speed limits to 20 MPH. Adapt sensible policies and enforce them. No amount of enforcement will make nonsensical policies work well.
<p> http://www.facebook.com/people/James-Sco\\... James Scott
<p> Obama is not interested in fixen this issue it's part of the Saul Alinsky's Hand book Rules for Radicals "begin the task of agitating: rubbing resentments, fanning hostilities, and searching out controversy. This is necessary to get people to participate" you will see this constantly through the next 4 years get use to it. he has no intention of helping the impoverished only keeping the flames of hatred burning.
<p> http://twitter.com/CafeConLecheGOP Cafe con Leche GOP
<p> You're correct. Obama is more interested in the issue rather than a bill, so he can demagogue the issue. Unfortunately there are Republican politicians who oblige Obama's demagoguery with shrill rhetoric, which the liberal news media gleefully reports. The GOP needs to stop giving liberals ammo with which to shoot us, engage Latinos more effectively and often, and present sensible solutions, not impractical enforcement-only strategies.
<p> Immigration reform is often used as a code word for Amnesty. We need enforcement when it comes to illegal immigration. Not Amnesty. I pray that our country does not make the same mistake twice and grant the illegal aliens living in the United States Amnesty. They need to be deported. That is our law. We need to give the Federal Government the resources to do their job.
<p> http://twitter.com/CafeConLecheGOP Cafe con Leche GOP
<p> Amnesty is forgiveness and few are advocating amnesty. Most recent proposals call for fines, waiting in the back of the line, and deportation of some, as a minimum those with criminal records.
<p> There is a range of solutions between mass deportations and mass amnesty. Amnesty is corrosive to the rule of law, and by itself does nothing to address the core problem: a broken immigration system that does not meet the needs of our economy.
<p> I only speak for myself. My Mother was from Aldama in the state of Chihuahua. My Father was from Gossau in Switzerland. I'm an atheist. I'm fiscally coservative and socially liberal. I believe strongly in the US Constitution, especially separation of Church and State.
<p> My advice to Republicans and Democrats alike is to focus their arguments on solutions to problems and stop demonizing those who disagree with you. Running for political office is NOT a blood sport and it is NOT a fight to the death and, most certainly, it is NOT a fight of Good against Evil.
<p> Too many Republicans, over the past 40 years, have left me with the impression that a vote against them is a vote for the devil. I have never seen Lucifer on any ballot under that name or any of his aliases and I don't really think he exists whatever born again Christians insist is the Truth.
<p> Nope -- this is just special pleading. The core constituency of the Repubs is dedicated to preserving the privilege of your traditional white christian male.
<p> You are claiming that if they just stop attacking Hispanics everything will be fine, and they can continue their attacks on women, gays, blacks, non-christians .....
<p> Won't work. The Repub base isn't interested in any rational accomidation with anyone, it wants to maintain it's core identity.
<p> ChrisSanchez
<p> Morally, this amnesty is the WRONG thing to do. Millions of people in Africa, Asia, Europe AND LATIN AMERICA are playing by the rules and waiting in line to get into the country legally. And we are going to give amnesty to people who have either overstayed their visas or walked across the border illegally? It is disgusting. It may or may not be the best thing to do politically, but that is another matter.
<p> http://twitter.com/CafeConLecheGOP Cafe con Leche GOP
<p> Amnesty is forgiveness and few are advocating amnesty. Most recent proposals call for fines, waiting in the back of the line, and deportation of some, as a minimum those with criminal records.
<p> There is a range of solutions between mass deportations and mass amnesty. Amnesty is corrosive to the rule of law, and by itself does nothing to address the core problem: a broken immigration system that does not meet the needs of our economy.
<p> Doesn't the truth matter anymore that the RIP Ted Kennedy promised to never enact another amnesty. I wish that I was a psychic and see the future of America in another 4 years? But anybody can forecast the outcome on some things, as it's already initiated. An even larger bureaucracy, with the present "Rules and Regulations" exploding into truck loads of more insane directives to inhibit small business creation. This President Obama signing more entitlement programs for low income people, or those parasites who live on the host that is state and federal government public assistance structure The unions gaining even more obscene power, to achieve there ends that will strangle free enterprise. Phrasing into America an even more radical form of Socialism edged with a Communist agenda. Our countries military weakened by less funding for our navy, air-force and army services, that might have far reaching dangers for our nation. More taxpayer's money being spent on the friends of the White House, in pressing for more environmental policies that have already been shown to be less reliable and many have gone into bankruptcy including "Solyndra". The destruction of the coal industry by Obama's Environmental Protection Agency," with whitewashed lies, that drilling permits are readily available and supplied to the oil and natural gas companies. The EPA agency refusal to expedite use permits for the construction of a pipeline from Canada to refineries in Texas. My concern that should be brought to the surface is taxpayers forced to pay for all the 20 plus illegal aliens, plus the encouragement of even more illegal migrants and immigrants getting the word from relatives, that if they rush to the border, they will be able to get a free payday once inside our country. The American people are sick and tired of either political parties not listening and there is rising resentment out there? Neither the GOP nor Democrats have enforced immigration laws since the devastating Reagan amnesty of 1986.
<p> All the promises and lip service have been lies and the Tea Party are no longer listening to the entrenched corruption in the Congress. They could have passed "THE LEGAL WORKFORCE BILL" that would have ejected some of the illegal aliens out of jobs, making way for citizens and permanent residents. They could alter by Amendment the Birthright citizenship Act" but it hasn't been implemented to stop the smuggling of babies accumulating citizenship to further propagate the growing national state and federal financial deficits. Those morons on the beltway have never carried out the law to construct the U.S. border fence, according to the former President Bush 2006 SECURE FENCE ACT and instead deliberately defunded its construction. How much money do you think this will be extracted to pay for this policy? One estimate from the Heritage Foundation is over 2 trillion dollars. How much are payments for health care, education and other welfare subsidize to support new immigrants in just California...2 billion dollars annually. What do we get back for it...more poverty?
<p> If we cannot truly look after our troops returning from the warzones, if we still have millions of homeless without hope, then why are we either bringing in millions of legal immigrants, other than highly skilled workers that are welcome. Why is not illegal entry a Felony? All these questions need to be asked. The Democrats have four more years to produce some interesting successful effects such as lowering the U.S. monstrous deficit of a growing 16 Trillion dollars. Is the fed continue to print money with a good portion going towards paying off foreign investors such as Communist China? Are we still going to be the biggest $ patron of a United Nations with the Liberals genuflecting to this corrupt organization. In UN history are large scale rapes in banana republics by international troops sent to keep the peace in numerous encounters. Not forgetting the latest significant issue of involvement to take away our right to bear arms, to steal our national water rights with an agreement from our own left administration. This crippling development is being played out and quite conceivable in Barack Obama's Executive Order # 13547 in support of the global Law of the Sea Treaty (L.O.S.T.) strives to take control of our water in any form of precipitation, from the sky to the oceans!

