<0318226>
<http://www.newsdzezimbabwe.co.uk/2012/10/do-we-really-have-to-go-with-tsvangirai.html>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A15LFIRQ542D1T>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A2U8FX2Z4NIHA5>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A31VXFZVLRDZHZ>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3KCUB6P3IE8NL>

<h> Wednesday, 17 October 2012
<p> I travel a lot. Inevitably, I stay in hotels a lot and I almost always realize, about a week into my stay, that I did not pack enough pairs of socks. I don't like using the laundry service that the hotel provides: I am independent like that. I don't allow the hotel porter to carry my luggage either. I love my independent streak, and I am reluctant to exploit those less fortunate than me. During my teaching days I never let the pupils carry my books or my chair. But my independent streak does sometimes lead to me not having clean socks.
<p> With seven pairs of dirty socks and an important seminar to go to, I have to resort to what I call 'bachelor syndrome': of all of the dirty socks, which pair is the least dirty? That is the pair I will wear.
<p> Morgan Tsvangirai'Bachelor syndrome' is what [Prime Minister] Morgan Tsvangirai has driven Zimbabweans to. A lot of people I have talked to will say: 'We know Tsvangirai has got his problems and weaknesses, but rather him than retaining Mugabe.' I agree that we can't give Robert Mugabe another term in office. He did his bit between 1980 and 1990. There was a lot of growth with equity then, and much building of schools and infrastructure. But there is a reason why politicians are supposed to be given a maximum of 10 years in office. Politicians are humans; after five years they begin to descend into a mode of relaxation and a habit of being self-serving. It's up to the electorate to vote out politicians after five years -- or after 10 years if they are really exceptional.
<p> So we don't want to retain Robert Mugabe, but do we really have to go with Morgan Tsvangirai? Isn't it time to go out and buy a new pair of socks instead of making do with the pair of socks which is less dirty than the others? It's easy for the electorate to think they owe Morgan Tsvangirai something, given that he has been battling Robert Mugabe for more than a decade. But that debt has already been paid: hasn't he moved into a multi-million dollar mansion? Hasn't he had his fun, reportedly going all over the place collecting concubines? Power has already corrupted him; whatever sympathies we have for him are now misplaced. It is time we thought of Zimbabwe. Morgan Tsvangirai should be subjected to serious scrutiny because we don't want a change of government just in name.
<p> So Robert Mugabe is not an option at the next presidential election, and Morgan Tsvangirai has had his time in the sun and his hands in the cookie jar. What are our options? In the previous election Dr Simba Makoni was dismissed as a ZANU PF ploy to divide the opposition vote. But deep down a lot of Zimbabweans knew that he was good for Zimbabwe and, given a chance, would do a good job. Even with the ZANU PF tag tainting him, Dr Makoni still got a reasonable share of the vote. He is still a viable option and could do well were he to occupy the presidency. The man's silence is disappointing though. Honestly, how can we consider him as a potential president if he won't bother standing up to be counted? Are we to believe that he really was a ZANU PF diversion project? Stand up, Dr Makoni, and give the people of Zimbabwe an alternative!
<p> If Zimbabweans can rise above tribal politics, professor Welshman Ncube is another option. He is a man who could steer the Zimbabwean ship away from the gorge towards which it is headed. His nationwide rallies show us he is serious; we should support him. Tsvangirai is not the only option. Surely his arrogance in living a ridiculously luxurious lifestyle before the struggle is over, and letting 29 MDC-T (Movement for Democratic Change Tsvangirai) activists languish in remand prison for over a year, shows us he has arrived at his intended destination and we will have to continue our journey to Canaan on our own. We have to move away from our personality-cult tendencies and subject all available presidential candidates to a rigorous test based on their ability to run Zimbabwe, rather than reacting to our hatred for Robert Mugabe. Will we have to dig around in the dirty socks cabinet, or can we find a new pair?
<h> 33 comments:
<p> One step at a time. We all know what first step needs to be, you articulate it very well above. From there, we can find a more viable and appropriate leadership. Don't rock the electorate boat with your albeit valid points at this vital time in Zim's existence. Don't move to split more votes; stay steadfast in delivering the bigger picture, and removal of the white elephant in the room. One step at a time, Mgcini... democracies were not built in 32 years. It has taken the so called Western countries centuries to arrive at what still is not a perfect democracy. I love my Zim and put my hand up at being one of those that will actively work towards steering it out of the mess that it is in, by ensuring I vote for old socks today, for a brighter tomorrow, wherein i will buy new socks. Regards, G.
<p> Good question but to me Simba is non option. Why should Zimbabweans be forced to bring back Zanu PF through the back door as if Simba is the only available pair of socks on the market? Unless if the factory has been closed or indigenized by ZPF then we have few options but surely this must not create that kind of desperation that will direct us to pick Simba for the job. He is the most used and dirtiest pair of socks offloaded by his users at Kotamai Boutique (Mupedzanhamo). This is not the time to shop at Kotamai Boutique to quench our thirst for change.
<p> Simba Makoni votes in the last presidential elections resulted in splited votes and those votes could have easily have gone to Morgan. Simba will never have serious votes but will always split them and the result is an undecisive leadership. Why does he only resurface just before elections? he is never incacerated, he pretends to be the all innocent boy who sheds no blood but has he not under the leadership he served from 1981? What has Simba done to deserve to become president?
<p> MR Writer thanks for being so creative in driving a point home, i definitely agree with you that we shouldn't be blinkered into thinking that Tsvangirai is the only option available, but we should also not lay blame where its not due, this is in reference to the 29 MDC activists, Morgan has done everything within his powers to seek their freedom but being Zanu Pf, they made sure they stay in jail, i dont think you really understand the Zanu Pf we are dealing with, do you, how many things have they openly refused to implement on the GPA despite even having pressure from the world over, and you expect them to bow down coz of 29 activists, what we can only do is accept that we are in a war situation, lets pray for them, give them strength to soldier on,coz freedom is coming tommorow, Ngugi Wathiongo said" there is no night so long that it does not end in dawn" kunoedza chete i tell, vachabva vachimhanya, if Sadam and Gadafi were removed, what can stop Robert, its a matter of time, and the time is near, we want to weigh objectively all the options that we have, objectively........AHOYI Macomrades!!!!!
<p> An anti-MDC-T campaign manager! Mr writer, are you telling people that if Tsvangirai is a failure there are no other suitable MDC -T leaders to take over. Why do you have to hunt for leaders from outside the popular MDC-T? Sounds like you got paid already. Like you said both of the leaders you have chosen are waiting on the sidelines while others are doing the dirty work. They are opportunists who want to jump in only when the tide has settled. Vana Muchekadzafa vanhu vako ava! We want leaders who suffer together with the people. Leaders who are prepared to be arrested, humiliated, smeared with mud, tortured, etc for the sake of the people they lead! Kwete mbwende dzaurikutaura idzi!
<p> I met a lot of people like Nyoni, who travel a lot, in 2008 and I still meet them. Some no lnger know what Zimbabwe looks like because they do not come home anymore. Some are learned so they are listened to. They are however limited in that they do not know what's on the ground. I agree that Tsvangirai is like the old socks and I am one of those who would want a day when we shall have news socks. They socks may be there but certainly not in Simba or Welshman. As I said in 2008 I met a number of people in foreign countries and read a lot about Simba being a viable option (we even had a seminar with some professors dedicated to that- we were only 2 people there who kept on saying this is not how ordinary Zimbabwean think). They just want to remove the socks which are more dirty. They have not seriously started thinking that they are putting on dirty socks still. As for Welshman, I do not even know how he claims to be fighting for democracy. When I got to the UZ and he was teaching us constitutional law he would proceed with a lesson with 5 students while the rest were demonstrating. I quote him in one of his lectures after people had gone for a demo leaving the lecture- "If you think you came him to do POLAD you shall see when the exams come." I suppose the spliting DNA is in him more than in Morgan.
<p> While I agree with some of your points, you do not give a plausible reason why Tsvangirai should not be given a chance. Prof Ncube you are talking about was given an opportunity to be a minister when he lost elections? Prof Ncube was given a farm pahondo yeminda, if he was a principled leader he would have refused. Prof Ncube is a very devisive leader who will fuel tribalism in the country. I am not implying that a Ndebele cannot lead Zim, but a tribalist should not. Look at Ncube's track record, he split from MDC, then appointed Mutambara and then another breakup. To me he appears to be an intolerant leader, sorrounding himself with political minnows (except Misihairambwi), who will tow the line. I happen to have seen a nearly similar article written by Qubani Moyo who happens to be in Ncube's publicity department, and I am just wondering if not from same office. I think Morgan remains the better option with Mutambara weighing in second. His party has the best portifolio, boasting of a mixture of trade unionists, technocratics and the general populace a mix and dilution that is needed. Just check the professors in the MDC-T. It shows chero asina kudzidza Tsvangirayi allows divergent opinion.
<p> Good analysis but wrong conclusion. We need Tsvangirai as a one term president. Then after he has neutralsed and normalised the plitical field and when it is no longer a huge risk to campaign for presidency, then we will have real worthier candidates coming up and it wont take too much effort to beat Tsvangison.
<p> People,noone is forced to vote for Tsvangirai nhaika.You vote for who you like.Let Zimbabweans make their own decisions ,don't speak as if you are Zimbabwe.If you are the one who fills that you dont have to settle for Morgiza good for you there are other candidates out there.Let those who want to vote for him do so otherwise just campain for a candidate of your choice if you fill Morgiza is not it.
<p> "We pray for your guidance in building a nation  that abides by your  word and guarantees the values of democracy, human rights and individual freedoms.
<p> We ask that you give us strength to always fight for justice and the rule of law for all our citizens. To ensure that all Zimbabweans are free to persue opportunity, equality and prosperity.
<p> Lord we ask that you grant our leaders the wisdom and humility to follow your word and to serve the people of Zimbabwe with honesty and devotion. We pledge to work in your name and in solidarity with the people of Zimbabwe to deliver diginity, hope, peace and prosperity to our great nation.
<p> No body will force you to vote for Save. If you do not want, leave it to other people to make their choice. If you say 'we' I hope you mean you and your family. Promote Welshman in a better way than pretending as your choice was Save in the first place.
<p> Writer is clearly out of his depth- thinks he is well read from swallowing everything he reads in the Herald. What exactly is this Simba supposed to have done to make him the next big thing? Even Gushungo is better, because he believes in something! If writer knows what Simba believes in he must surely share. As for past experience-Simba failed in every Ministry he was given, got sent out to SADC and proceeded to fail there, came back to Zimpapers, failed and fired, back in government, failed, in business he is a nobody, Mavambo the same. Where do you get these ideas of grandier when you refer to him?
<p> It's not like Tsvangirai is the best candidate, he is the only serious of all them. You almost made a point until you crapped about Simba Makoni we don't need him. The other MDC is just problem after another. Talk of the oldest candidate just visit Zimbabwe everything called good should be best but, the oldest guy is now shy to let go.
<p> Mgcini Nyoni Mhata yako mhani why did you want to cause chaos now who did you think will have enough votes to outcast Mugabe other than Tsvagirai. Our only alternative ndi Tsvangirai rega amboita then after 5 years atadza basa tomurusa. Ngatizamhanyire kumedza kutsenga tichida. Zvakare Mhata yako

