<0664011>
<http://www.sarahwilson.com.au/2011/04/why-im-sending-my-kids-to-public-schools/>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A13JQIAK0MAF3B>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A23AWSZSAGLY8X>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3SWVCOJPJM7KQ>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A8MA2IIU95EE6>

<h> why i'm sending my kids to public schools
<p> Posted on April 7th, 2011
<p> I've ranted about this issue before. I'm vocally against the principle of private schools. So is Justice Michael Kirby. Below are some of his thoughts from his interview with Fran Kelly on Radio National this week. But first...
<p> I know parents want to provide the best thing for their own kids. And they feel that private schools provide a better start in life.
<h> But two issues.
<p> 1. I don't know that fancy pools and excursions to Tuscany make for a better education. When I got to uni I was surrounded by private school kids...I was one of a few public school kids studying law at ANU (I don't think this is to do with grades alone...more that I think law is pushed more as a career at private schools...which ain't necessarily a good thing). I remember being astounded by how much hand-holding my peers required to keep up with the course load. This is a generalisation that might offend. So let's put it this way -- I reckon the "self-led" approach required to get ahead in public schools sets a kid up well for life beyond school. In all kinds of ways. Not least of all that it instills awareness of a fuller spectrum of the human experience.
<p> 2. The "my kid deserves the best" attitude perpetuates the growing divide in schooling quality between public and private. While ever good, engaged, smart parents send their kids to private schools, it drains resources from public schools.
<h> My beliefs are these:
<p> * The two hallmarks of a just society are the same (high) standard of education and health for all. What chance does a kid have if these things aren't accessible to them? With a decent education a kid that comes from nowhere has choices.
<p> * Good, engaged, smart parents have an obligation to all kids, not just their own.
<p> * Good, engaged, smart parents can turn a school around -- make a public school a vibrant, nurturing space that attracts great teachers. And they can ensure their children get a good education. They don't need fancy pools and excursions to Tuscany. They don't need private schools.
<p> * The more good, engaged, smart parents that proactively support the public school system, the better for our society.
<p> * This issue matters. It really does.
<h> Here's some highlights from the interview.
<p> I cried hearing his take. This stuff matters. You can listen to the podcast here .
<p> Michael Kirby: In the High Court in my day, and even today, only one justice in my day was me, was educated in public schools. And, given that 67% of Australians are educated in public schools, that is itself a question. Now, why is that so? And, in my opinion, where your educated, your schooling, your values, the democratic secular values that I received in my public education, really are hardwired in me. And the values affect the decisions you make. We can pretend they don't. We can hide them. We can disguise them. We can not reveal them in our judicial opinions. But they're down there, affecting the decisions, affecting the way we see words in the Constitution or statutes and so on.
<p> Fran Kelly: If those decisions, as you say, are hardwired into you at school, then every parent, a lot of parents have a dilemma -- they want to support the public school system but they want to their kid the best chance. On those statistics, to give their child the best chance there for a future in the law is to go to a private school.
<p> Michael Kirby: Well, I'm sorry Fran, but if we take that view, we will wind down the great Australian experiment . We were the first continent that from sea to sea had public education, free, secular and compulsory.
<p> Fran Kelly: So we should be investing in it?
<p> Michael Kirby: Absolutely. And fewer manicured lawns and swimming pools in private schools, if necessary. We should be putting our money where 67% of the population has its children.
<p> I suspect this issue will divide opinion a lot. Do you think parents should consider the greater good when making school choices?
<p> Great article. I'm a public school graduate, as were my parents, and to be honest growing up in a country town of NSW there weren't a lot of other options than the local public schools. Now as a parent I'm appreciating more and more the growing divide between the haves and have nots in terms of public vs private schools. As a parent you want the best for your children, yet the system seems increasingly becoming one where you only get the best with money. I fear if this isn't addressed soon then we're heading for an even more divided society.
<p> What would you have parents do when they live in rural and remote areas where there are no public schools? I lived in a remote location that was 4 hours away from a public high school so went to a private boarding school in the city.
<p> Public vs Private doesn't even begin to do justice to the needs and wants, the strengths and weakness, nor the interests of the child whose future you are helping to shape.
<p> I guess that is why the decision should be and most often is left up to the primary caregivers of the child, who best know them, to decide. Our society will reap the benefits of wonderful persons who are well educated in either arena.
<p> It should never be an issue of private v's public. It should be school v's school and the best one chosen in the eyes of the parent and what is best for their child. We didn't choose our private catholic school based on its private stature or religious grounds, we chose it simply because we believed it was the best school for our children. Making a decision otherwise is making an uninformed and neglectful decision.
<p> Michael Kirby is such an amazing person. I send my child to a public school and they will be going to public high schools -- when a lot of kids transfer to the private system.
<p> 1. The money spent does not give that better results. I would prefer to spend that money on them in other ways.
<p> 2. Diversity of school mates, and to know that not everyone is white and middle class is a good thing.
<p> What gets me is the amount of people talking down the public system including the teachers and the unions. It actually scares parents off. If they are saying it's bad, then it must be....
<p> I think the myschool website (ok it is not an exact science on how the stats are calculated) is actually showing the public school system is rocking it, and also bring people back into the public system.
<p> Last night I went to a parent session on "Writing in Preps" at the local primary school where my kids go. It was fantastic. A trio of more committed, passionate, energetic teachers you would be hard pushed to find anywhere, at any school in Australia. They really knew their stuff and they really cared about the future of our kids.
<p> I think all Australian kids should have the same educational opportunities and I applaud you for advocating the same.
<p> This is a very complex issue. My children go to a tiny independent school. It is a Montessori school and that is why we have chosen it. No school (near us) 'private' or 'public' currently offers a Montessori program. Perhaps they should, then everyone would learn a) how to learn autonomously (and because it is interesting) and b) be independent! I think there are many kids require a lot of 'hand holding' as you put it, regardless of their schooling history! The thing I most object to is the idea of a career in law as the indicator of success! What about the naturopaths, small business owners, tradespeople (etc) that keep the world spinning?!! You don't have to go to uni to be a success. (Says she who is now on her third degree )
<p> I think the Montessori thing is a whole other argument. I don't want my young children to be in such a rigid and structured program, but want them to be able to play and talk and create in their own way, without a specific "order" of things. That's what this whole debate boils down to... each child is different and therefore parents need to decide what is best for them, not one person saying each child "needs" public, Catholic, Steiner, Montessori and so on...
<p> Hi everyone, this is the first time I've posted on here, but I can't resist. I too am an ANU law student from a public school, there are definitely a lot more of us here now! The thing that really annoys me about the public/private school divide is the emphasis that prospective employers in the legal world put on this (i don't know if this is real or imagined but it feels real to me) I feel like I have an automatic cross next to my name because I didn't go to 'the right school' with the 'right' people.
<p> I think that private schools are great for some people and public schools are great for some people. At the end of the day its about choice, but the choice should be an equally balanced choice. Education is a human right and as a society it is our duty to ensure that everyone has access to it.
<p> It seems so unfair to me that some private schools have pools and tennis courts when some schools can barely scrape together enough textbooks for the kids. Public education is an asset in Australia and we should be cultivating it.
<p> As someone who has been involved in recruitment by law firms, I can assure you that secondary school does not form part of the decision-making process.
<p> Firms will be very interested in the marks you attained at University, any extra activities or part time work you do and they will also consider the calibre of the University. That being said, in the time since I started at the firm (7 years), the actual University has become even less important. Previously, we only took graduates from one or two Universities, but this has opened up considerably.
<p> I went to a private secondary school and wish I hadn't! Yes I got into Melbourne Uni to study the course of my dreams, but I don't feel I really earned that place...I just think that public school kids have to work so much harder and learn about independence at such a young age. My school was like a business. There's no way the principal would have known my name, it was so freaking huge. She was like the CEO of a company. Also, I really didn't like being in an all girls environment. I am still shy around boys and think this had a lot to do with it. I know this doesn't happen to most people, but it's been my experience. If I ever have kids, I'll definitely send them to public schools. If I'm worried about the quality of education, I would probably spend a bit of money on a tutor. I watched how much financial strain my parents were under to put me and my sister through this school, and while I love them for it, I personally don't think it's necessary.
<p> Finally, the private school system undoubtedly breeds an air of privillege, of elitism. This is just a fact. Trips to Europe, excursions to the snow etc. are great, but when some public schools are still in mobile classrooms, they just can't be justified.
<p> That was a bit of a rant and I hope I haven't offended anybody but that's just how I feel.
<p> I totally agree with you Zoe. I was brought up Catholic, and therefore sent to a private Catholic all-girls school. I hated it ! My parents were working class and scrimped and saved for my brother and I to have this education, yet I was miserable at school. There were so many girls from wealthy backgrounds, and it really showed the divide between the have and the have-nots. I also found it very bitchy ! Luckily I had interaction with boys via my brother and his mates, so I understood the differences between boys and girls (and I don't mean just the physical !) As a single parent with a 12-year-old daughter, there is no way I would send her to a single sex private school. Obviously, as a Librarian on a low income, it would be impossible for me to afford the fees in the first place, not to mention all the extra-curricular activities, but I also feel we should support our public schools in a bid to change the attitudes of those who believe a private school education is the only way to go to achieve success. Your child will succeed, or not succeed, regardless of what school they go to. There are so many other factors involved; e.g. parental support, motivation, and peer group. My friend's daughter went to a very elite private school for girls, and was bullied mercilessly -- to the extent she tried to take her own life. The school said they had a "no bullying" policy, but refused to look into it further as the "bullies" parents were wealthy professionals who contribued a lot of money to the school. My friend changed her daughter to a public school, where she excelled -- including receiving a scholarship for Uni, and a fantastic group of friends.
<p> Rather than lump the blame with "good, engaged, smart parents (who) have an obligation to all kids" failing to fulfil that obligation, how about addressing the core issue which is funding for public schools. This is the point that Kirby makes when he says: "And fewer manicured lawns and swimming pools in private schools, if necessary. We should be putting our money where 67% of the population has its children."
<p> Thank you for at least being willing to start the debate...we need to overhaul the way we educate our children, and public v's private is really only the beginning of the conversation. The current System of delivering education to children & young adults is failing a large percentage of them..... we are not preparing them for life let alone work....
<p> Definitely food for thought. I was a private school girl but have been considering public school for these very reasons for my daughter -- although she's only 5 months old so I've got a little while to decide!
<p> What a great article Sarah. I am parent to a 15 month old, and live in a regional centre. We have been discussing education as we have already been asked which school we are going to send him to ( hello?! he's only just started walking). Many of my colleagues and friends are saying private or Catholic schools are much better than public schools, and that my child will fall behind in a public school system, because he is not in an ethnic minority. (boy i hope this is ignorant small minded rubbish) Asides from the racial issues, and the fact that he is only 15 months old -- there is a definite divide amongst public v private schools ( and for these purposes i classify Catholic schools as private) My husband is a (regional) public school graduate, and i went to a (metro)Catholic primary school and a (metro) public high school and we're both doing pretty well for ourselves. I find it very easy to get caught up in the "Mum-hysteria" of doing the best/right thing for my child/ren, and freaking out over choice and I have to remind myself that which school my child will EVENTUALLY go to, is important yes, but the foundations for learning and education will be best delivered by the best private teaching that money can't buy -- and that's from me ( and husband). Education starts, continues and finishes at home -- Private or Public is inconsequential if your foundations aren't set.
<p> And anyway, when the time comes, my children will probably go to the school with the best coloured uniforms.
<p> I went to a private school, but not a 'name' private school, and Lisa I agree about the legal world having preferences for certain schools. You can feel like you have the cross next to your name even having gone private. But that's just a couple of small-minded people from legal families, so I don't let that get me down!
<p> I entirely agree with everyone above, that in many instances it isn't even private v public, but school v school, as it should be. Generally, schools have a 'strength'. The public school near me has a very good reputation for sciences. I'm not so much into sciences, and so went to my private school which had a great mathematics extension program. My old brother went to a public school with great art facilities and reputation for small class sizes (he's shy), while my younger brother went to the local catholic school with all his mates given that he didn't need special attention in any particular area. We all went to the local catholic primary, and we all had positive schooling opportunities.
<p> So, a long story, but I'll be sending my kids to the school that best suits their needs.
<p> I can definitely see this side of the argument, however I have come from the other side, and, from my own personal experience alone, have seen some benefits of a private education system that are almost never discussed.
<p> I was offered a place at a private high school, after spending 8 years in a lowish decile school system. My younger brother was then enrolled in the male equivalent school so he would be able to have a few years in the private system, like me, then would go back to the local (top, supposedly) boys public high school.
<p> After a few years of seeing the benefits provided to me and my brother by the private schools, my parents decided to leave my brother at the private school, instead of changing back to the grammar school. Class sizes were sitting around 38 students to a class, bullying was rife and my brother would have at best been lost in the system, at worst a victim of it.
<p> He is now an amazing young man, with no one to say a bad word about him. I almost dread to think what may have happened if he did not have the support that school provided him during some difficult teenage years.
<p> It is easy to say that all opportunities should be afforded to all students, I agree wholeheartedly, however some of the public schools out there, and the boys school mentioned was the top public school in the city, that cannot give students the support they need. My parents made the decision based on values and support as much as academic achievement. Whose responsibility is it to ensure that public schools are providing a worthwhile experience, to encourage high achieving parents to enrol their children there?
<p> My school has taken it upon itself to bridge the gap between private and public education, allowing other schools to make use of its facilities at little to no cost, by setting up programmes where teachers go and spend time training and teaching both teachers and students alike in low decile schools in the area, fundraising for educational materials for other schools, buddy systems between students to help share knowledge and study resources, offering scholarships and many other ventures it would not be able to engage in if it weren't for the fees being charged as part of its service provision.
<p> Thanks for a great blog Sarah. My husband and I both went to public schools, me in the country and him in the city. We would dearly love for our girls to attend a public high school. We live in Sydney but the local public high school just doesn't 'feel' like the right choice. Middle class parents like us in our area have practically deserted the public system for the private sector. It's interesting because it seems to be an area thing (within Sydney). We live in the Eastern suburbs and our choices are really limited, however our friends in the Sutherland Shire are spoilt for choice with fantastic public high schools. We are considering all options, but likely we will end up in the private sector for high school. By the way, I would never send my kids to private school for primary, the public system is fantastic is this respect, despite gross under resourcing.
<p> In the area we live in we are surrounded by private schools which cost at least $20k per year to send your kid. It's not a choice for us to send our kids there. My old high school friend had her primary school kids christened so they could go to a Catholic secondary school. She doesn't believe her kids will get a good education at the perfectly good public secondary school she's zoned in. When people start thinking like this, what hope is there?
<p> I must say also that it is a totally different issue depending on if you are based in the city to regional areas. (We are regional). City private schools are very pricey so therefore many I guess aren't able to make the choice about which school is best, it has to be based on what they can afford. I agree with what someone said earlier -- the real issue is funding for public schools so that the public schools have the money available to spend on facilities, training, staff and programs.
<p> I actually work in both private and public schools, and I would have to agree with another commenter above: it shouldn't be about private vs. public; it should be about school vs. school in your area.
<p> I also attended a state school, and international school (while overseas), and two private schools. Which provided the best experiences and education? The two private schools followed by the international school with the state school coming up last.
<p> I am not a snob. Nor did I ever have my "hand held". The curricula at the private schools were much more challenging than those at the other schools I attended, and compared to my peers at state schools.
<p> I didn't attend a fancy grammar school in high school; I went to a co-ed Lutheran college that had the ugliest uniform in the history of school uniforms. At this stage, I had just come back to living in Australia and had completed my last year of primary school at a local state school. That had been the most distressing and horrible school year that I'd had or ever would have.
<p> As a painfully shy 13-year-old, I would have been battered and swallowed up in any of the four big state schools in my (regional) city. My college was consistent, gentle, and did not tolerate behaviours accepted at schools in the state system.
<p> Parents should absolutely have the right to select which type of school their children attend if and when they can.
<p> As a tutor, I see big problems with the cultures in both the state and private schools in which I work. But I still think that parents should be able to select the culture appropriate to their children.
<p> It's not which school you've attended that decides on your University entrance in Queensland (or in any Australian state, right?). It depends on your OP score, which is moderated across the entire state. I wouldn't have a clue whether half the linguistics students in my first University degree went to State or private school.
<p> PS I should add that my parents were very working class in terms of their earnings when I was high-school age. I earnt a half-scholarship, which enabled me to attend my college for five years and not send my parents (completely) broke. The school was very generous in this respect, and often discounted fees for families in need.
<p> I should also point out that we didn't have school-trips to Tuscany or tonnes of fancy equipment. It was a conservative, stolid college with committed teachers.
<p> Even among private schools, there are the ones that promote elitism and snobbery at one end and more socialist, egalitarian schools at the other. This exists in state schools, too. One in my city is renowned for its sports program. Their facilities are superior to any other in Toowoomba, state or private.
<p> In Queensland, the OP system is kept in check by subject moderation by the Queensland Core Skills test. These two measures do rank schools, but not in order to privilege one over the other. A grade of A in one school may not necessarily be equal to a grade of A in another. Subject moderation assesses how difficult a subject's curriculum is compared to its peers in other schools; the QCS is a skills-based test that determines relative aptitude of kids in various schools. This means that, if a bunch of students score well on the QCS (showing that they are capable thinkers) but are all getting lower subject results than another school, it probably indicates that the curriculum there is more difficult.
<p> I believe that this is a fair system. The OP score is a cumulative result based on marks on ALL assessment throughout the senior year, not single testing done at the end of the final year (like the HSC).
<p> I was incredibly stressed out in my final year of school, but I think a HSC system instead of an OP system would have catapulted me into the next cosmos of distress.
<p> While I agree with this in principle (we have a daughter 7yrs at a public school) and so happens that we can't afford private school anyway. However, the public school in our area (only 12mths old and one of the latest schools in Vic) is our ONLY choice as we are 'zoned' to that school. The school is pathetically overcrowded with hallways being used as classrooms and the subjects on offer are only just covering the basics. I want to support our local public school but with over 1000 students in 12mths, teaching staff coming and going and the school in my opinion 'just doing what they have to', sometimes the public schools are far from up to standard. Our dilemma.....move home to another area (very costly and we would prefer not to, or find $20k for both our girls for the private school)
<p> I went to a private school and I know without a doubt, that going to a private school helped me get to where I am today.
<p> At the time, I hated it. I hated wearing the daggy school uniform, I hated the rules, I hated the expectations, I hated the fact that I couldn't wear makeup to school, that I had to wear a hat, that there were no boys in my school, and that my teachers ALWAYS knew when I was absent.
<p> I was an academic high achiever, but also had a very strong sense of rebellion, which just didn't go down at my school. I couldn't get away with anything. I was pushed by my teachers to do my best, I was supported, and I didn't have the distraction of boys (and gee, was I boy crazy... having boys around would have been very detrimental to my studies!)
<p> I certainly don't think my school was the best school I could have attended. It was very conservative, not very innovative, but it was very student focused with small class sizes. I have since completed two degrees and a postgrad diploma, and feel very happy with my life, and my achievements.
<p> My parents also sent my brother to a private school. He also hated it, but even more so than me. He was a complete rebel, and even got suspended twice. But at least he attended school, because if he wasn't there, the teachers would crack down on him. Eventually my parents decided to send him to a public school, to see if that would be more suitable for him. They sent him to the "best" public school in Adelaide. And he LOVED it. Because he could get away with anything. He basically never attended, and not once did the teachers notice his absence and try to contact my parents. Eventually he just dropped out, because he was never there anyway.
<p> Anyway, this is just the experience of my brother and I. I am a very scholarly person by nature (my brother calls me a "nerd") but I was a very free-spirited teenager, with rebellious tendencies, and I know that I would never have got the attention and focus I needed from my teachers in a public school (or at least the ones I know of).
<p> You could argue that public schools encourage the "Self-led" approach, but the fact is that young people often need a helping hand in life, they need teachers who know their names, and who actually care whether they show up for school. There may be private schools where this doesn't happen, and there may be public schools where this does happen. And there are many more issues. But I think the comment that someone else made, that it should be School VS School rather than Private VS Public.
<p> I'm not saying at all that private is better than public, but I'm just sharing my personal experience. I think it's up to the parents to look at the best school, work out which is best for their own individual child, and not be made to feel guilty or "wrong" for choosing one over another.
<p> And just for the record, my school didn't have a pool or a gym, or trips to Tuscany, or anything like that. It was just like every other school (except for the fact we had to attend Chapel every day, which I also despised!!! And 5 years of doing that never converted me to Christianity, interestingly!)
<p> I feel like a big reason why law degree's, medical degree's and other degree's with extreamely high UAI's are filled with private school students, is because the HSC system favours them over public school students. The HSC ranks schools according to their average marks, so considering that private schools are more likely to have higher average marks than public schools, a student who gets a 60 UAI in a priate school will get their marks pulled up considerably just because their class has a higher average mark than a public school. That means that a public school student who gets exactly the same marks as a private school student will get a lower mark than the private school student considering that the average mark in a public school is likely to be lower than in a private school. That's my understanding of the system anyway. Very unfair. I went to semi private school, which i think was pretty decent. I have a friend who went to a public highschool and says that he was absolutely disgusted with the quality of teaching and the behaviour of the students. He felt that he wasn't being taught anything, there was no structure and that they were treated like primary school kids with the type of material being taught- there was absolutely no standard in education. So based on that, I think the government would have to invest a lot more in public schools before I'd be willing to send my kids there.
<p> I totally agree with you on the school ranking and having your UAI raised based on how your school did! My best fried and I both went to public (but different) high schools. Academically we were both the same, just above average. However she was severly bullied so her parents pulled her out of the public school and placed her in an all girls private school for year 11 & 12. The bullying stopped, however she noted how handfed they were in preparation for their HSC. The school had an image to uphold of high UAIs and so they basically made sure it stayed that way by spoon feeding their students. My friend ended up with a UAI in the high 90s, everyone was shocked. Even her. Her school scaled well and bumped up her marks.
<p> The issue is definitely not public vs. private. I have taught extensively in three private schools and two public schools. The private school populus was as diverse as in the public schools, and reflected the demographic in the surrounding areas. Two of the private schools were founded specifically to meet a need in the local community. In the most expensive of the schools, students were very independent and 'self-directed learning' was written into their curriculum.
<p> The government still partially funds private schools (some more than others), but they simply could not afford to fund all schools throughout Australia whilst still accommodating the diverse needs of students. Those who have visited underpriviledged schools (public, religious and private), will appreciate how the education dollar is stretched. Naturally, the alumni who bequeath money to private schools for the upkeep of their gardens would be better off spending their money elsewhere, but this is just a drop in the ocean and eliminating or boycotting private schooling is not the answer -- it would only over-burden an already over-stretched public school budget.
<p> I am a firm believer in sending my children to the closest public school. My three children attend public schools. Our local primary school is a very small and intimate school with less than 200 students, so my children aren't stuck in large classes. I have been very happy with the quality of education that my children receive.
<p> Also, because I've not chosen to send them to a "better" school far away, I don't have to drive them to school. I love the fact that they can ride their bikes to school. I think it is good for their independence and fitness.
<p> People trying to sell us things often tap into our insecurities as parents. We are told that if we don't go private that we are not getting the best education for our children. But this is a fallacy. In fact our choice of school has a smaller impact on the academic achievement than people trying to sell you education would have you believe. I loved the study they spoke about in the book Freakonomics that showed that the school a child was sent to had very little influence on the child's level of academic achievement. The factor that did strongly influence academic outcomes was the parents' attitude to education. If you value education, then it is likely that your child will as well and that is what leads to academic success.
<p> And for many children, I think private education is a complete waste of money. I think it is better to save your money on the fees and have extra to spend on sending them broader extra curricular activities, such as music lessons, overseas exchange trips, and private tuition for subjects where the child need's extra assistance.
<p> As one of the students I teach (in my job at a university) said to me "My parents spent 80K on my education, and here I am at uni with people who went to public schools. I would have much rather gone to a public school and had the 80 grand".
<p> You can do a lot in the way of extra enrichment for your kids with 80K.
<p> Couldn't have said it better myself marie, so much comes back to the home life and level of interest of the parent or parents . I plan on sending my kids to the local public high and hope to be around as much as possible to support and encourage them !
<p> Fantastic, Marie -- I love your attitude! My parents (both public primary school teachers) sent me to public schools the whole way through my education, and it was because of the money they saved that I was able to participate in two overseas exchanges (6 months and 1 year), interstate sports trips and other 'extracurricular' activities. Their attitude towards education was what encouraged me to learn, and I was taught to seek out my own opportunities in life. 'Despite' not going to a private school, I had encouraging teachers who assisted me whenever necessary, and I finished in the top 3% of students in the state in year 12.
<p> However, it's not my academic achievements that I'm proud of in life -- it's my attitude towards new experiences and the skills I learnt from all of my activities outside the classroom. Public schools can be fantastic places if you're willing to put in the effort towards your own education... and if you're not, a private school isn't going to help you.
<p> I totally agree with you Marie. If a child wants to learn, and has the support of their parents, they can go far, regardless of the school they attend. The reverse also applies. You can spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on your child's education, but if they aren't interested in learning, and have no family support, it's a complete waste of money.
<p> I agree with what has been said, its not a public vs private view, it depends on the school. I attended a public high school and whilst i went on to secondary education and am now on my way to forging a successful career ( i am only just 21) the majority of my school mates are still living with their parents with no jobs and no goals at all. I find this very sad and absolutely a direct result of our schooling, i lived in a rural area where the only option was the public school i attended or very christian ruled private schools- i have heard stories of friends getting suspended for their hair being too long! what this has to do with education ill never know! but that being said the school i went to had very little in the way of choice for senior year electives, which are tremendously important! with many people dropping out to finish their chosen path at tafe. its hard to get behind a school where there is relatively no choice in careers and students( boys in particular) are pushed into dropping out to pursue an apprenticeship in year 10 as this is "easier" my younger brother was told this half way through year 11 when he was offered a position. although i have never wanted to send my children to a public school, i wouldn't send them to a school like i went to either so where is the middle ground?
<p> BTW Sarah, I have read in several of your articles that you attended a public school and you certainly didn't paint a positive picture (bullying, etc..) (and yes, I know this happens in private schools also).
<p> It is very interesting then that you say you believe in public schools based on an earlier comment by you "...In the end, the distance I kept helped me survive and to grow beyond the very limited experience that was Lyneham High. The clique went on to get pregnant too early and waste opportunities"...sounds like a winner of a public school to me!
<p> It was not a great school. But I got a decent education because my parents encouraged me to learn and provided a home life that was engaging and engaged. Which goes to my point -- we support public schools so kids whose parents don't have the $$$ (and might not be provide an engaging home life) get a fair crack. The angle I take is that we have a moral obligation to support public schooling for all.
<p> I've taught in both systems, and it is true there are some positives in the private system. The school that I taught at had smaller class sizes, more pastoral care and very nice school camps overseas.
<p> However, I chose to spend more of my career in the public system, because I'm a bit of a socialist and I can see the gap between the haves and have-nots widening. And, in the private system, I had to spend too much personal time doing extra-curricula stuff!
<p> It is true that public schools are underfunded and over-crowded, and yes, our government needs to do something about it, so we could take the government funding from the private school sector, (who, frankly , if they can afford swimming pools etc, can fund themselves) or just put more money into education all round ( bring back free university education!).
<p> In my experience, the students who do well in the public schools are the ones with parents who care. Parents who take their kid's education seriously usually have kids who achieve to their best potential.
<p> However it does help if class sizes are reasonable and discipline is supported by the administration team in the school.
<p> Incidentally, I was educated in both private and public schools.It is hard to say which was better as one was for primary school(private), and the other for high school(public).My siblings had the same education and my older brother dropped out in year ten to become a mechanic, my sister didn't finish year 12 and I went on to Uni. I don't know if their outcomes would have been different had we gone to a private high school.
<p> My children go to public schools. My husband teaches in one. I'm very happy with the standard of their education. My two eldest boys have been offered places at Uni. My youngest daughter is in a special class for gifted students. I see their success due to some really great teachers, and parents who care.I don't know that their outcomes would be different in a private school.
<p> This is such an important issue, I hope Australians give it much thought.
<p> No, it's not public versus private. But I don't want my tax dollars going to a school that my daughter can never attend.
<p> You can send your kids to private schools when you can afford to pay 100% of the costs. 100% of tax money earmarked for education should go to public schools.
<p> Incidentally, leading on from a comment above. I was in Sarah's grade at Lyneham High. It wasn't a great school, and i left early in year 10 and went to another State school nearby. I had a lot of trouble at Lyneham, was subject to bullying, and easily slipped through the net that such a big school could provide. But at this distance, so what? I can read, write and figure. I can play a number of musical instruments and speak several languages fluently. I can do all the things that privately-educated students can. I never felt a lack. And I never needed my hand held, ever. Because I think what Sarah is talking about isn't necessarily all about the level of education. I think it is about having to deal with what was on offer, having to mix with kids from the entire catchment area of that school, not just the ones whose parents could afford to send them there. It was about making do with what was available, which, really, is life. And this informs your world-view, which, if you go on to be a public figure in any way (teachers included), affects your outlook on the people you deal with. How can it not?
<p> People who would baptise their kids just to get them a private Catholic education have shocking values and are teaching their children some incredibly morally dubious lessons (I'm a committed atheist but this is not on).
<p> I think a lot of people have entitlement issues in this area. All the education in the world won't make you a rounded person or a valued, responsible member of community. I agree with Sarah, with Justice Kirby, and I stand by my statement above -- all private schools should be 100% privately funded. Then we'd see what level of education State Schools could provide when properly funded.
<p> May I enquire then how you would address the issue I raised (in comment #2) of secondary education for rural and remote locations that do not even have a school? I doubt, even if all funding went to public schools only, there would ever be a chance for these communities to have a school built and staffed as the numbers still wouldn't be there. What are these families who send their children off to boarding schools (which are predominately private schools) to do? Oft times these children are not from families with money (myself included) that are extremely fortunate that a school with both boarding and beautiful facilities is available for their children to go to, to feel comfortable in whilst being away from home.
<p> I think what I seek is a situation where we simply make it so that all kids have access to the same standard. It's an aim that we move towards as individual contributors. Of course, along the way there would adjustments and exceptions. Who says boarding schools can't be public? Who says there can't be funding for country schools? Surely if private interests can see a market, then a Government can too?
<p> @Anna, I will face this problem myself if I am still living in my current situation when my daughter reaches high-school. I do understand it. For myself, the answer is, I will probably move, closer to Sydney or closer to a good high school. I think schooling is one of the things that parents should be committed to. But I'm in a position where I can move (perversely, because I don't own a house or many assets, it makes it that much easier to leave!).
<p> But a real answer to your question would be -- in the short term, I don't know. In the long term -- if there was proper funding for government schools, some of that should be earmarked specifically for rural areas. As Sarah said above -- why can't there be government-funded alternatives, government-funded boarding schools. But if you live very very remotely, then I would have to say that's your choice of lifestyle, for whatever reason, and every choice comes with downsides. It's for you to assess whether the benefits of living where you do outweigh the negatives of having no school nearby.
<p> I was a public school gal and proud of it! I believe highly in supporting the public school system because like it was mentioned 67% of kids are educated there! Even though im very against and don't believe in private schools, I have 2 good examples where private schools had stopped bullying. My best friend went to a co-ed public school, was severly bullied, the school didn't handle it good enough and so she was moved to a private school and she was never happier. My boyfriend was bullied from year 7 to 10 being moved to 3 public schools to help stop it but nothing changed. They moved him to a private school half way through year 10 and the bullying stopped immediately. I'm not sure if this is reflective of bullying policies and tolerance between private and public, but these are just 2 examples where I am grateful that a private system was available for my friends.
<p> My husband and I went to catholic secondary schools -- not exactly posh or elite, but still considered private. We were set on sending our kids to public school for all the reasons you mention but... now that it is time for us to get serious about where our kids go, we have chosen to go catholic -- it seems the happy medium. When it's your own kids your talking about -- class size matters, school culture matters & community matters. We have found that the only school that offers all the things important to us, that we want for our children is the catholic school down the road. Obviously some of the more expensive schools over those things too but at a HUGE price (+ elitist & entitled attitue). To sum up -- you go what is right for your family.
<p> I tutor kids in English and have taught kids from both public and private.
<p> Although I went to a very good public school (which I loved) and generally like them, but from first-hand experience the standard of teaching and what the kids I tutor know is so much greater at a private school.
<p> I have kids I tutor in PREP that know more than Grade Three's at public schools.
<p> I have kids in grade three at private school that know more than a grade six at a public school.
<p> The standard and what they teach is simply higher: my kids know more than public school kids.
<p> Megan, do you think this is primarily because of the level of teaching at public schools, or because private school parents are generally from a more educated background and begin the education process at home? In my experience, it's the start you get to education before you reach school that sets you up to learn.
<p> In a private school environment, parents may be more likely to have their children tutored if they're not up with the best kids in their class, whereas in a public school environment, it's more likely that only the parents of the worst-performing children who NEED the extra help will seek it, because they're told they have to.
<p> I think the comparison of your observations of individual kids here isn't fair, and that there would be examples of both fantastic and poorly performing children at both types of school.
<p> What you know at five, or 10, or even 15 is not necessarily indicative of how 'successful' or 'intelligent' you are, or will be, though. And nor are the grades attained necessarily indicative of what you know. Kids can be trained -- the hothousing debate shows that though heavily tutored kids perform better and at a 'higher' level at age 11, the field levels out around the age of 14. Natural intelligence can be fostered in any environment, and equally kids can be failed in either. It's about the child, the parents, the teachers, the philosophy, the culture. And the quality of none of those things can be bought.
<p> Trips to Tuscany & private pools -- WTF? I went to a private school and did go on a cultural exchange trip to Spain, but we were all encouraged to paid for it ourselves and I did thanks to 3 part time jobs. I think you need get a grip on reality Sarah. Perhaps you are referring to some of the more elitist private schools in Sydney, but believe me, this is not the norm. And so what if they have pools. There are schools around me with pools and tennis courts, but they are also open to the public after hours and on weekends for a fee.
<p> Part of being a parent is making these decisions. There's no right or wrong.
<p> Hi Wilso, A young work experience student wrote her thoughts about this issue for The Beast at the beginning of the year. She has attended public and private schools, and is now at a selective school (she started there this year and i believe she is most happy there). Check it out here: http://thebeast.com.au/other/public-vs-p\\... Personally, i attended both public (year K-9) and private (year 10-12). I think the combination of the two suited me well. I got a good grounding from the private school but achieved results at the private school that i wouldn't have had i stayed in the public system. As it turns out, i dropped out of uni and started my own business anyway. So maybe i'm not the best example!
<p> Dan this is the approach we have taken with our kids. Public primary school and private high school. But neither system has any idea what skills these kids will need in the future. Just look how much our world has changed in the last 15 years. I suspect the most highly creative and stimulating schools will produce our future inspirational leaders in their fields.
<p> I found this post to be interesting as I also tutor maths and english students from primary through to secondary levels. I have been tutoring for over 8 years and my students have come from private and public schools.
<p> What is most important is a good teacher, who is skilled at not just the subject but also in how they teach it, and a student who is willing to learn. It then doesn't matter whether it is a private or a public school.
<p> The points that struck me the most were about parental involvement. Being involved with the P&C at our public school is always about being in the minority, same goes for our soccer club. The excuses of "we're too busy, there is no time in my day left to give, I don't speak English well enough" seem to be the most common excuses. For those that do put up their hands, it feels like these parents just delegate away all their responsibilities to someone else (teachers, volunteers, tutors). Parents are a critical part of the school system but they seem to be a dying breed.
<p> One friend said to me this week that her school didn't have a P&C and that she preferred it this way. I was shocked and asked why. She said that it was easier to pay extra up front than to have to keep participating throughout the year. Another friend at a private school says that money doesn't buy a better quality of parent.
<p> So I agree with Sarah in saying that parental involvement, and community building overall, will build better supported schools, both public and private. Oh, and sharing the dollars around evenly is always going to help.
<p> It has already been mentioned by someone else, but there is the regional factor -- the nearest high school to our farm was 65km away and had an appalling reputation (I still remember stories of girls getting into fights and having earrings ripped out). My parents made incredible sacrifices and almost went bankrupt sending three children to boarding school.
<p> I also disagree with Sarah's comments that private students needed hand-holding when they got to uni -- I found the opposite in that those who had always lived at home (public or private) did not adjust well to the real world. Given I effectively left home at 12 years of age, I was fully independent when I arrived at uni.
<p> I agree that being private school educated does tend to make some doors a little easier to open, but I am incredibly grateful that my parents made the sacrifices they did to give me that education.
<p> A can of worms. I have just spent the better part of the afternoon potting plants for our (public) school fete in October. I have done 200 pots, as well as make jams and jellies, and every family in the school is doing more of the same. We also have a pancake van that we take to local events. We raise a huge amount of money for our school, all totally voluntary, and that is how there is a Smart Board in every classroom, not through any government assistance. The classrooms themselves are second hand portable rooms from an old school that closed. They are nearly falling down, but hey, we have a brand new "Multi Purpose Hall" that has taken two years to build and is still not finished. The money needs to go into teaching teachers to teach.
<p> This is a tiny primary school (90 kids) in the country with a community of "good engaged parents" and committed teachers but what happens at secondary level? Who commits the time to building a good school when both the parents work full time? You pay. And that is why my Year 7 son has gone to a private school. (Options are more limited in the country). My advice to parents is give them a bit of both, if you can afford it.
<p> Thank You Sarah and Thank You Michael Kirby for making a comment about equality in education. I went to my local public school and have been teaching in public high schools for 21 years. I have seen first hand the change education can make in the lives of kids. I am a firm believer that all kids should have access to the same standard of education. And work every day to do my little bit do this.
<p> I am sorry Sarah -- but, your statements sound like they belong to a different world and time -- a world without social networking, computer games, extreme competitiveness to get into University, high cost of living! These views were right on the money 15 years ago -- today, no so much. A chose private school for my daughter -- I just made that choice and I am very comfortable with that decision. The private school I chose doesn't have a swimming pool, but it does have a wonderful, safe, nurturing environment with a strong academic program. Things are only getting tougher -- I want to make sure I have given her the best start in life. I agree that things shouldn't be this way -- I agree that we should invest in public schools and education should be free for all -- but unfortunately -- not the case right now and I am not about to risk my child's future.
<p> I went to BGGS for years 8-10 and finished my education at a public school. I can honestly say I achieved better results in the public system vs the private and I enjoyed learning a great deal more. I may have been lucky, ending up in a rather conservative public school with conservative values. I have spoken to many teachers who teach in the public system but choose to send their children to private schools. Their reasoning, has nothing to do with the quality of education but the quality of the peers the children are exposed to. Lets face it, the socio economic divide is as much about the school community and population as it is about the resources available. How much easier is it to learn in a classroom nearly full of engaged and relatively well behaved students, compared to a disruptive and disrespectful classroom. So for me , its as much about a breakdown in society values and parenting skills as it is about the quality of resources and or education.
<p> PS. I hope and pray that in 5 years time when my children are ready for high school that I can find a public school that I can be confident with... as a single mum, private school fees are out of our reach.
<p> I couldn't agree with you more, Sarah, and it's a hot topic of conversation at my house constantly. We have two sons, aged 2 and 4, so the decision is quite a way off. My husband went to a private school, and I went through the public system. Even though he hated his school, and I thought my school years were fantastic, he is still committed to our boys going to a private boys high school (we agree about public primary schooling, thank goodness). I don't know what is going to end up happening with our boys. I haven't put their names down on any private school waiting lists (despite my in-laws' constant reminders to do so). I just believe that with the right parenting and support and the public school system you can have a great education, as I did. The stuff we missed out on that private schools generally have were the great facilities, but I reckon I got a lot more of a 'life' eduction at my public school and that has been so valuable to me.
<p> I also just can't fathom the cost of some private schools (like the one in Sydney where my husband went). Quite honestly I think helping my children travel and see the world, or helping them to attend university overseas, or something like that, would be money better spent.
<p> All children should have access to safe and nurturing school environments, whether their parents can afford it or not. I guess when it comes down to it, I just don't want to take part in perpetuating the attitudes that make sure the inequity between the two systems continues. I hope I win the argument with my husband.
<p> It's easy to make grand statements about the future however you never know what the future will bring including but not limited to the beliefs of your partner, the education needs of your child, the behaviour of your child, where you live..... etc.. the list goes on.
<p> When you have children an entire set of variables open up that you most never would have expected, some people like to control every nuance of their life and time and happiness however having children forces you to let go (of control) and be open.
<p> Oh that old chestnut again. Public v;s private school. I don't want my tax dollars funding kids at a private school, public school is just fine in Australia. Blah Blah Blah.
<p> How about you put up some actual FACTS about funding for private students and public students. The AVERAGE funding per public student in Australia is $13,286 per year. Tha AVERAGE funding per private student in Australia is $4220.00 per year. EVERY public student in Australia gets more funding than ANY private student in Australia. I pay tax so why should'nt MY taxes go towards paying for MY childs education whether it is public OR private??? Every child in Australia should be given an education voucher to a certain dollar amount, say $6,000 you take that voucher along to whatever school you want your child to go to, if the fees are more than the voucher you pay the difference in fees. I am sure when 1000?s of parents flock to the best schools the poor performing ones will pick up their game. The simple fact is this. If every parent with children in priavte schools pulled them out and enrolled them in the local public schools, the whole system would fall over and colloapse, the public education system in Australia CAN NOT cope with the students it has now, how in hell do you think it could cope with more? and as for the swimming pools etc, thats what you get when you have over 150 years of old students and families contributing to the schools, people leave their old schools money in their wills. Ever heard of ANYONE leaving their local public school any money?? Bet not. So stop with the looking over the fence with envy at what the private schools have and start looking at the reasons why so many people are so unhappy with public education. Lets see.... 15 in a class as apposed to 35, gee I know what school my kid is going to do better in. When someone in the media does a story on public verses private and actually publishes the CORRECT facts and figures and does not put their own spin on it will be a day that they debate can finally start. Until then the public devotees will ALWAYS spin the figures to their advantage.
<p> it's not about stats, it's about the principle of access to good education for every child. and while tax dollars are diverted to already wealthy private schools, that's less money for public schools. tax dollars are for society, not individual choices. private and catholic schools have proliferated at the expense of public schools.
<p> if there was greater demand for public schools , the government would need to allocate more funding -- the system would not fall over.
<p> Of course it is about choices, it is ONLY about choices. You CHOOSE public, I CHOOSE private. Why should MY tax dollars pay for YOUR child and not MINE??? It is universally recognised that most families that send their children to private school have a higher income, therfore they pay MORE tax. Why can't their taxes pay for PART of their childs education. Do you actually think it is ok for multimillionaires to access an already struggling public school system? That they should use up resources for free?? You are ok with people who can afford it, to get free education?? Strange logic.
<p> But some people don't have the luxury of choosing, why should their children be worse off because of that? Of course multimillionaire's kids should be able to access free education -- as you say yourself, they have, through their taxes (in theory) contributed more than enough for this to happen. why shouldn't they? there would be a lot less inequity if they did.
<p> Sara Reply: April 8th, 2011 at 2:30 pm
<p> Sally, how are people who cant afford choice worse off? Most people here are raving about how great public education is. If that is true then how are people who only have the option of sending their kids to public schools worse off? Unless what you are really saying is that private schools do actually offer kids a better education but because you cant afford it no one else should be able to send their kids there either?
<p> Sally Reply: April 8th, 2011 at 3:06 pm
<p> That's not what I'm saying at all. I do think there is a divide in the quality of education available from public and private schools, and that this is growing, and that certain attitudes compound and perpetuate the gap. I'm saying that if public education was given the funding it deserves, all kids could have the opportunities offered by private schools (through their facilities, smaller classes, range of subjects to choose from etc) regardless of their socio-economic background. Surely that would be a good thing.
<p> Eva Reply: April 9th, 2011 at 7:33 am
<p> I don't think the choice is made on education alone, but rather the school population, and who you want your child to associate with. Whether that be children and families of the same religious background, or families from better socio-economic backgrounds, Sara is acknowledging that this makes a difference to why private is an option. And of course, with private schools comes cost, and I bet there are plenty of folks out there who would love to get their kids mingling with the "right crowd" who just can't afford to (which is what Sally is saying).
<p> I think we're trying to say is that the quality of education and social interactions that you get at a private school should be the norm for ALL schools! Public schools feel that if they had the money to do it, then they could play on a level field, no problem. But when they start off at a disadvantage, it's a hell of a job to just catch up. Oh, and not saying that public education is bad -- my kids go to a fabulous school, but that it could be amazing if we didn't have to fight for money.
<p> When you live near a school where bahaviourial issues are rife and teachers send more time in crowd control then teaching then you do what you think is best.
<p> I will NEVER NEVER put my kids in the public system again. It is up to ME to teach them to be independant, responsible, freethinkers, etc as much (or more) as the school. Parents who put all the responsibility on the school are dreaming and need to lift there game.
<p> So far, I'm OK with the public system, but I completely agree with you Nicole in saying that it's up to the parents to be involved at all levels. When did parents get to the stage that they felt that delegating their responsibilities away to schools was OK? Learning is for life, not just between 9am-3pm.
<p> Sarah, Thank you for opening the debate, which through the comments above has been fantastic. However I am disappointed that you have relied on old stereotypes such as lawns and pools to separate private and public schools. We need to appreciate the spectrum within each type of school, and as many readers have said above, it is really about school vs school. In addition, I think the home learning provided by parents in everyday life has far more of an influence on values, work ethic and academic strengths than a school.
<p> As it turns out, I went to a public primary school that had a swimming pool. It was built in the 1970s from parents' fundraising. Perhaps I was lucky enough to have the best of both worlds. Hats off to all those tireless fundraising parents.
<p> Thanks Sarah for raising this important issue. We don't hear enough public commentary about this fundamental issue. I will be sending my children to public schools. I don't understand the logic of funding private schools with public money. If parents choose to send their kids to private schools then they pay for it -- all of it. Simple. Taxes are for the greater good of society, not personal choices. Parents also have a role to play on committees etc to work with teachers and get the best possible outcome for their children and the school. It's as good as the effort you put in. I will be spending my extra disposable income on taking my kids travelling, educating them on the world at large, not on blazers, hats, extension subjects and keeping up with the Jones'.
<p> Guess what Maya, I send my kids to private school AND I take them overseas EVERY year and they volunteer every month at a homeless shelter AND once a year their school goes overseas to build buildings at an orphanage that they raise money for all year. So one does not exclude the other. You are not a more superior parent because you think your choice is better. When people stop having the attitude that you have shown, then and only then can real discussion take place.
<p> that's truly admirable. with your holistic parenting, i bet your kids would do just as well if they were in the public system. the public system needs more families like yours. my choice is about what kind of community i want to live in -- i want all children to have opportunities. i don't think that is such a bad attitude.
<p> Interestingly in the UK as with MANY other European countries....private schooling is not funded by the government. The schools are INDEPENDENT....this confuses me too....maybe I am a little green.....don't the Royal Family in Denmark and Sweden go to public schools?
<p> I went to a private school (and for the record didn't go on excursions anywhere more exciting than the local art gallery).
<p> I am an an engineer -- I love my job and am helping to manage Australia's precious water resources. If I went to my local public school it is very unlikely I would have been able to do this. To study engineering at uni you need to take higher level maths and physics in year 12, and my local public school didn't offer either.
<p> Sure, I could have gone to another school to take those classes. I would have missed other subjects and have had to make them up in my own time and I wouldn't have been studying those hard subjects in a cohort of students I knew and exchange ideas with outside of class. I simply would not have got the grade to enter the course I did at uni.
<p> There were a lot of things I didn't like about my private schooling, but it got me where I am, and I'm glad my parents could and did send me somewhere that supported my apptitudes and interests.
<p> Your take on this issue is too simplistic. You can't expect parents to sacrifice their child's educational experience to support a local school that doesn't offer what they need. The onus is on governments to fund public schools to a level that allows them to offer educational opportunities for all.
<p> The elitist attitude in this interview makes the entire thing a mute point. The assumption that private schools are only made up of wealthy families and the curriculum made up of whimsical trips here and there is plain ignorance. There are many reasons people make the choices they do for their children and it is not anyones place to judge ones choice. The irony of this interview is the judge comes across just as snobbish as the ones he is judging.
<p> I completely agree with this from a philosophical standpoint. I'm not Australian though. What I really love about having been public school educated in a large city in Canada is that I was in my 20s -- honestly -- before I had a clue about racism. Growing up, my best friends were every colour of the rainbow. I was eating at the houses of people of Indian, Pakistani, Romanian, Korean, Caribbean, Vietnamese, Chinese, Japanese, aboriginal, Russian, etc. origins. Many of these families were new immigrants and not at all well off; the aboriginal families were extremely poor. I knew that my friends lived somewhat differently than my family did, but there never was ANY idea in my head that they were different from me in a way that made them any less. All of the kids I know who went to private school in and around the Toronto of the 1970s grew up almost exclusively around white kids. There's nothing wrong with that for some people, but it's not the easiest and best way to learn that the "other" is just the same as you, in all the ways that matter. I think it makes for a much better society; I think it helps us lean towards a more just society. I've always been grateful for the people and lifestyles I got to know as a result of my very mainstream education.
<p> I know that private schools are somewhat more culturally diverse here now, which mostly means embracing more of the middle class...That said, my public education served me well. As you suggested, it taught me to be independent and to self-lead. I attended three of the best universities in the country and earned three degrees, have represented my country as both an athlete and in a diplomatic capacity, and have travelled the world on my own dime. I'm also bilingual (and am learning a third language). There were no special educational resources invested in me beyond the public school system. So it's difficult for me to see the private system as necessary training for a fulfilled life.
<p> I probably shouldn't say this, but what I see around me in our current culture is a race to "design" the optimal kid. At least where I live, that seems to drive my colleagues to send their kids to elite private schools. Personally, if I have a kid I want her to be literate, numerate, creative, with a sense of civic responsibility and compassion for others. I'd be happy with that. She can learn X in her adulthood, if that's her passion (or in her childhood -- just as I became a national-level athlete without a coach or any special training, I'm sure a kid who wants to learn something outside of the public school curriculum will...do it).
<p> Every parent should have the freedom to choose what form of education they would like for their child. In Australia, we are fortunate in this regard and this freedom of choice should never be taken from us. Sadly, I believe many parents are making an ill-informed choice which does not have the best interests of the child at heart.
<p> Some parents have limited choice due to financial hardship, but many are making their choices based on ego. Some feel that certain schools will give their children a competitive edge, some are throwing technology into the hands of their young children believing this will somehow make them better, brighter, smarter. Worst still, some are prematurely exposing their children to adult concepts via television and similar mediums. I don't think every parent has a full awareness of the educational choices that are available. I'd like to share my own experiences in this regard.....
<p> My own parents were born and schooled in south-east Europe but, due to poverty and scarcity in their lives, were not able to attain a full primary-school education. Migrating to Australia, my mother was widowed when my brother and I were young. She knew nothing about private schooling (affordability was out of the question anyway) so the local ACT public school was the only option open to her.
<p> I was a shy, quiet and conscienscious student and looking back..... what made the biggest difference to me were those teachers who showed empathy and kind-heartedness (the ones that really cared) and this is something that is truly precious and worth finding -- irrespective of the school or education system!
<p> When my own eldest child was small, I discovered Steiner Education, albeit accidentally, but am grateful that I did. The difference I found in the Steiner system is that it takes a holistic approach to education based on the developmental needs and stages throughout a child's life. It engages not only the mental faculties but also the emotional, spiritual and physical as well (think of it as educating and nurturing the head, the heart and the hands/body).
<p> The first time I ever walked into a Steiner Kindergarten I saw and felt just how beautiful and special it really was. The children's creativity and imaginations were fully engaged through their play and they socialised with their teachers and each other in a warm, positive way. I was also deeply moved and facinated to learn how subjects that are appropriate and beneficial to children at a given time in their lives are recognised and incorporated into the curriculum for EVERY year of schooling. The intention is not to hasten or accelerate the child's development unnaturally. Quite the opposite... it is to allow their Spirit to grow!
<p> Other 'independent' alternatives are Montessori Schools and home-schooling. These educational alternatives shouldn't be dismissed. Each have their own merits, just as each child is its own person.
<p> At the end of the (schooling) road, I really don't care what profession/occupation my three children choose for themselves. My primary and deepest desire is for them to grow up as happy and well-adjusted adults. All indications to date show they're on track!
<p> For the record I'm just a regular, working-class dad who loves his kids but I'm gonna get off my soapbox now. Before I do I'd also like to say it is my belief that all parents, educators, and every member of society should look and work towards nurturing and protecting THE MOST IMPORTANT part of each of our lives..... a healthy, natural childhood.
<p> Public vs private schools is an ongoing deabte, depending on your experiences/environment/upbringing.... Instead of being stuck in the divide, it's important to assess a school when you first enter it and ask yourself 3 important questions, 1. Is it a happy place? 2. Is it a safe place? 3.. Is there a sense of community? Focus on building good comunication in the home, read to your children from a very young age and spend as much time with them as possible in the early years, so they feel safe and loved. Build strong foundations and praise, praise, praise them! Teaching and learning begins in the home, we can't put all the onous on schools.
<p> I went to a public school. I achieved a 99.0 TER (WA's version of HSC) and won a spot at the law school of my choice. (Not bragging at all, just providing an anecdote!) Honestly, I think I could have achieved a higher mark at a private school, purely because the teaching style tends to be more focused on achieving a high score rather than learning content, but I am glad that I went to a public school. I think it made me a more empathetic, humble, independent, driven person.
<p> My parents sent my younger brothers to a private school (once I had already left) and pulled them out within a semester, back to the original public school. My brothers both hated it; one of them was bullied and the teachers did nothing about it.
<p> I don't think I would send my children to a private school -- predominantly because I am atheist and there are virtually no private, secular schools in Perth -- but I never say never. Sometimes children need to change schools (bullying, or they may be particularly talented in a certain area that the local school does not cater for), or sometimes the local public school is just awful (I have several teachers in my family, all having taught at low socio-economic public schools... and their stories convince me that there exist schools where I would never send my children. Violence, drugs, sex... I know it sounds like a cliche but it's worse than most people could believe.)
<p> The other issue is that teachers at private schools receive tax relief because they work for a "charity"... and public school teachers don't.
<p> Also -- just wondering whether people think this argument could be applied to public/private hospitals. Is there a distinction?
<p> Great article! I'm studying to be a teacher and I'm also a passionate advocate of public education (both a as a parent and teacher). If you'd like to have your say about public education, pretty please go here and find out some really easy ways that you can: http://www.forourfuture.org.au/ Thanks Sarah
<p> I am the product of a public school education, and very proud of the fact too. And I always used to say "public school was good enough for me and it will be good enough for my kids". That was before I had kids, you know, when I was a perfect parent! Now that I actually have kids, well, things have changed. As much as I believe, with all my heart, that we often need to put the community before ourselves, when it comes to my kids I am a tiger mum -- I really don't worry about what is right for everybody else's kids, I will do what is right for mine. And if that means sending them to a private school, then that is what I will do. I wouldn't say I'm proud of my new found snobbery and protectiveness, but it is what it is. Thankfully, we live near a wonderful public school that my son has recently started at and we couldn't be happier. We did consider the private school only 2mins from home, but for my son the pubic school turned out to be a better fit. And ultimately that should be what every parent bases their decision on -- where your kids will be happiest. Because a happy kid will learn no matter where they are.
<p> We had very small class sizes but the downside was that there weren't enough students to warrant a huge array of subjects to choose from. The money that my parents paid went into the teachers salaries, NOT swimming pools and definitely not overseas excursions. They attracted the best teachers in the area and could therefore pick and choose their teachers. My school offered partial and full scholarships as well as heavily discounted fees for families with a lower socio-economic background meaning that single mum's and struggling family's could afford to give their children a better education.
<p> I was educated at a public primary school and then was extremely lucky to be sent to one of this country's most prestigious schools. This was because my father was a teacher at the school at the time and this afforded my parents a significant reduction in fees.
<p> At my school there were lovely old buildings and manicured ovals and grassed areas we were not allowed to walk on (unless we were taking part in a sporting activities), a clocktower and flags. Despite this, many classrooms did not have air-conditioning, the swimming pool was unheated and outdoors, the bitumen roads rundown and cracked. My school didn't have a decent indoor gym for us to use until two years after I left, the reason being that there was no money to build something decent enough to last the next 40 years. My school was very careful never to borrow a cent from the banks and therefore the majority of funding for upgrades to the school came purely from donations. It took them over 5 years to raise the $20 million required for the gym centre. My point here is that every dollar was spent on wages, on resources, on the students, teachers and auxillary staff and upkeep of the school, they were not rolling in millions of dollars of government money that they could do without.
<p> If all the private schools closed their doors tomorrow and the children all turned up at their local public school to be educated, the government system would crumble, it would not be able to cope. Parents who send their children to private schools are effectively subsidising the education of children in the public sector.
<p> Therefore I believe if you can afford to send your children to a private school and it is in your and your children's best interests to do so, don't be distracted by this harmful debate. Moreover I do think some public schools have huge disadvantages and that all children should be able to have a decent, world-class education regardless of background but the underlying causes of these inequalities are not due to private schools sucking the money out of public funding. It's much deeper than that...and VERY VERY political.
<p> Ashley, How do expect all children in Australia to get an excellent eductaion if govt funding to the govt schools that educate the poorest and most difficult kids don't get more funding. If all private schools closed their doors everyone would have to be accomodated in the govt system. The outcomes would be better as the wealthy would be part of the public school system.
<p> I attended a public school for 9 years, and a private school for 3 years. The public school's were supposedly quite good. The private school was not fancy. The public school I'd gone to previously had had better grounds, more computers, a bigger librray etc.
<p> My public school experience was dreadful. I didn't even get taught the basics like grammar, maths, how to structure an essay etc. If I hadn't of already been an avid reader pre-primary school I'm sure I'd be semi-illiterate like many of my classmates.
<p> All my teachers agreed that I was highly intelligent, but did nothing to nurture that. In the public school system my curiosity and initiative was actually unhelpful. I'd finish an assignment well within the time frame given, and for my efforts I'd be rewarded with weeks of boredom as the deadlines were extended. Often I actually had to re-do work because the bar had been lowered so much since I'd finished that my work was no longer relevant. I would always start the school year excited to learn, but by the end of it I wasn't doing my work, I was skipping classes and whatever interest I had in a subject had been eradicated.
<p> I switched to a private school at the start of Year 10, largely because subjects like History, Literature and Advanced English were no longer available at my old school. I was the only student in my year of about a 170 to sign up for these electives.
<p> Right away it was so much better. The other students were engaged. They actually read the assigned books and were capable and willing to discuss them. The teachers didn't have to spell everything out. My marks shot up instantly. I was given so much help in subjects I'd previously dreaded, like maths. I started learning French.
<p> Previously I hadn't thought I would ever attend uni because I could see my marks wouldn't be high enough for me to get into a course that would interest me.
<p> I should add that my private school was far more socially and racially diverse than the public schools I went to, which were 95% white and middle class.
<p> In high school I was educated privately but only after the public high school I attended let me down big time in terms of my learning. Up until this point I'd attended public schools without a problem. I was streamed into the wrong class and given work that was way too easy for me. I was stuck with kids with behavioural and learning problems and I felt like I was just not learning enough. There were no GAT or extension classes and I was bullied and ridiculed for wanting to work hard and well.
<p> I am now a public high school teacher and in looking back on this I now see, and agree with you Sarah, that more funding was needed then and is needed now to support the kids that need it whether they be behaviourally challenged, have learning difficulties or in fact be bright and need extension.
<p> I can see the pro's and con's of both schools but I do see on a daily basis what a lack of funding to a public school like mine does in comparison to a school that receives fee money AND government funding. It is hard to see the fairness.
<p> [...] public school system.  I plan on sending my kids to one and wish more people shared my belief that public schools prepare children for life and quit throwing money towards a system which promotes a sense of [...]
<p> April 18th, 2011 at 1:23
<p> Erin says:
<p> I am currently in training to be a teacher in the United States, and I will not be sending my children to public schools. I will home school them at least until high school, and then will (finances allowing) send them to a private school.
<p> I believe that all students should be educated, and that we should improve our public schools so that all students get a fantastic education. However, that is not currently the case at most public schools, and it is not at all easy to just decide to improve a school and then do so. So much of the school system is regulated, and teachers are required to do so much with so little, that it is nearly impossible to make changes or improvements. I intend to teach in public schools during the time that I am not teaching my own children, because I want to at least try to make a difference to the children in my classroom, but I will not risk my children in a public school.
<p> I think it is irresponsible to risk your own children due to your idealism and your hopes that public schools will become better. If you want to help public schools, then by all means do so. You are needed. But don't put your children at a disadvantage in the process.
<p> We earn a high income $350pa and have several degrees between us. We send both our teenagers to a govt high school. They are getting an excellent education in an inclusive setting. Many of our friends pay $23k pa for elite schools and I do not see any great difference apart from petty snob value.
<p> I am REALLY late to this, but this is not even a conversation that takes place in the UK. 93% of the population go to Public schools. I find it baffling really. I am educated so is my husband. I am amazed how many people say "it isn't about private versus private' , to me the fact that you need to PAY for something that is supposedly better means the gap widens...I don't feel good about that....it's so unequal isn't it. Mine will go public ALL the way and from someone who went to a 'rough' school but did well academically as I had responsive, involved parents ...it's a no brainer for me.
<h> Leave a comment
<h> Follow me on
<h> Search
<h> supporting my site this week...
<h> you can buy my ebooks here
<h> about me
<p> I'm a journalist + TV presenter. I write about how to make life better. If I had a resume it would list the following: editor of Cosmopolitan magazine, host of MasterChef Australia, Sunday Life columnist, host + producer of the Lifestyle YOU channel (under "hobbies" it would say: eating + riding a bike). I'm on a mission to find ways to make life bigger, more meaningful, nicer, smarter, heartier.

