<0141117>
<http://www.crikey.com.au/2012/05/28/why-getting-australians-into-mining-jobs-doesnt-add-up/>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A208YGD0HZC8H0>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A2HBQP668JPNYH>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A3KCUB6P3IE8NL>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A8BLFGJE6RDQK>

<h> Why getting Australians into mining jobs doesn't add up
<p> The government is right to assist mining companies? -- ?even those run by Gina Rinehart? -- ?to obtain foreign workers for constructing large projects. But not because there's some basic problem with Australian workers taking mining jobs.
<p> Only last week Labor was boasting about the colossal half-trillion dollar pipeline of investment coming into the resources industry (thereby making a mockery of Tony Abbott's repeated insistence that the tax would harm the industry), but that pipeline goes nowhere if there aren't appropriately skilled workers available to build and then run projects.
<p> The basic union contention? -- ?despite key figures such as Dave Oliver and Paul Howes having been on the Industry Reference Group for the report by Gary Gray that led to the establishment of Enterprise Migration Agreement? -- ?is that Australians are missing out on jobs, particularly those displaced by closures affecting manufacturing. But the problem is there aren't that many skilled Australians looking for jobs. Gray's estimate is that the resources sector might be 36,000 tradespeople short by 2015. Worse, given the location of mining industry jobs, it makes little economic sense to assume people from major centres in the eastern states will relocate to take them.
<p> Why? It's nothing to with laziness or being work-shy. It simply doesn't add up. The biggest group of unemployed people are married people between 35-54. That means they're likely to have families. Moving your family to a town adjacent to a major mining project is problematic: wages are likely to be high, but so too will housing costs, cancelling out the benefits of any income rise. Ordinary household supplies will also be more expensive. Access to childcare or education choices for your kids is likely to be very limited, as will health-care options.
<p> If you opt for the other alternative and become a FIFO worker, that enables you to take a job without relocating, but puts significant strain on families and partners who stay behind.
<p> In short, taking a mining job might be superficially appealing, but anyone with a family would have to think long and hard, especially unemployment nationally is only 5% and the chances of picking up work closer to home are high. Instead, mining is better for singles with no kids. But young, skilled singles are only a small component of our unemployed; 15-19-year-olds form a substantial part, but they tend to have fewer skills? -- ?and investment in skills and training is a substantial part of the government's response to the Gray report.
<p> That's why when Abbott floated the idea of paying unemployed people $4000 to relocate to mining jobs before the 2010 election he was rebuked even by the normally loyal Coalition ally Mitch Hooke, who noted that mining needed highly skilled workers.
<p> Not that the mining industry is blame free. This is the industry that spent decades regarding its workforce as a burden and unions as an enemy to be smitten hip and thigh at every turn. A key reason  the industry confronts a skills shortage is that it has helped create it by failing to invest in its people, but like businesses in other sectors it now feels free to slough that cost onto taxpayers.
<p> So we're left with training programs and importing workers to fill the skills gaps that the rapid expansion of the industry have opened up, or major projects get delayed or cancelled. Preventing employers bringing in workers will simply delay projects and drive up the price of labour (which of course unions are happy to see). In 2011 there were more than 70,000 people in Australia on temporary employment visas. The maximum of 1700 that would be employed at the Roy Hill project are a tiny addition to that, providing some context for the bizarre anger that last week's announcement by Chris Bowen prompted.
<p> Quite why Julia Gillard decided to blame the whole thing on Bowen and Martin Ferguson and claim she wasn't aware of it is a mystery. What sort of Prime Minister defends herself by saying she doesn't know what's going on within her own government?
<p> This is good policy. Good policy, and bad judgment from the Prime Minister. The story of this government.
<p> This is good policy and the answer as to why Gillard tried to stress that Australian jobs will come first is probably down to the response not only from the Unions (who are always going to act in the best interests of their members) but the response of the media who have once again missed the policy and simply attacked the govt. The same media would of savaged teh govt had they not approved the Visa's and put investment and jobs at risk but hey why worry about that.
<p> We've always known that in the West - but it seems to be a secret for the rest of Australia - our "two-speed economy" is also a "two-speed national awareness. Since last week it became a bit more interesting:
<p> Welcome to Australia's TWO SPEED Caucus. Or should that be "three-speed government" - Ruddites, Gillardites and the undecided Luddites?
<p> Most people wouldn't I think see a problem with using foreign workers unless there were masses of Australian citizens lining up for these jobs and being refused possibly because of perception that foreign workers are paid less.
<p> However if there is a shortage of workers in Australia, why do both the Government and opposition continually bang on about mining providing jobs when clearly the evidence is we don't need them.
<p> A friend returned from WA recently and said it is a shame that much of the mid and north WA is becoming one big mining pit ruining the landscape and environment. Many of the extinguished mines in QLD have had a history of failure to clean up tailings etc despite obligations and commitments to do so under agreement. Ugly stuff.
<p> Does every mining application need to be approved just because it's there? What about long term consequences and weighing up environmental consequences among all other factors.
<p> if australia needs the people to fill these jobs in gina rineharts mines or anywhere else for that matter, then the answer is quite simple, bring in the required number of people by migration but bring these people to australia to be settled in our country as people immigrating to australia who will become austrlian citizens and be granted australilan citizenship as was the case with the great migration period in the 50s 60s and 70s
<p> this version of giving people special visas to work in certain special projects is just a sham for gina rinhehart and many others in the mining and resources sector to access cheap foreign labor end of story
<p> reinhart and others like her do not want australians to work on these projects because they despise unions and see australians working on these projects even if they come from the eastern states as people they can not control once they start working in there mines etc
<p> thats what this is all about CONTROL its all about the mining companies having control of there workforce lock stock and barrell
<p> it has nothing to do with so called labor shortages
<p> have you seen any adverts in the australian press from reinhart forrest bhp rio tinto chevron woodside etc saying that they have ie 5,000 available and giving details where people can apply for the positions vacant ?
<p> i dont think so, why does not crikey contact them and ask if they would like to advertise the positions required in crikey, perhaps some needed revenue for your online newspaper ?
<p> Not sure if paying them award wages is good policy... sounds like good ol greed to me... just think what they've done for their profit margins. Everyone else is now a victim of the miner's own success through higher labour costs except the miner's employees...
<p> Modus - "The EMA set out protections to ensure that visa-holders engaged on the project receive the same wages and conditions as their Australian counterparts and that those workers are protected under Labor's Workplace Act,"
<p> Not saying you are wrong but no metnion of "award rate" but the "same" as their Australian counter parts, sounds like market rate to me.
<p> It is simply beyond belief that Gina Rinehart campaigns against the mining tax because of the effect on jobs then now brings in 'guestworkers' - basically cowed under paid frightened staff who wont step out of line.
<p> The minerals are ours. Lang Hancock did nothing, he basically spotted them from a plane then got a lucrative government monopoly handed to him.
<p> The leases should be simply taken back from the Hancocks; - no government monopoly any more. If you want to mine there, you BID for the license. Take the leases back now!
<p> And every, every conservative moron who lobbied against and watered down the mining tax owes every other australian taxpayer a large sum of money, being the money we missed out on from the watered down tax.
<p> Yeah Modus - I have been searching for something definitive but can't find it, let me know if you do.
<p> I would say though that even at award rates, given the industry and the union involvement the would get all sorts of allowances that would make it a pretty tidy sum.
<p> As an aside my brother works on oil rigs in Malaysia 4 weeks on 4 weeks of getting US$500 a day. Some of the Malay and Phillipino workers get about $1000 a month and one he spoke to was getting 11 months on 1 month off.
<p> " Why? It's nothing to with laziness or being work-shy. It simply doesn't add up. The biggest group of unemployed people are married people between 35-54."
<p> Okay where are you getting your stats from.
<p> The largest group of unemployed are 16-25 year olds. It's been that way since the dole was invented.
<p> And a lot of them live in places like Western Sydney and don't seem to have the motivation to move... perhaps we need more forced job placements from areas such as these(do the job or lose your dole should be the messege).
<p> Geewizz- Seeing as you have already been way off the mark with your call for a secondary school-TAFE partnership that already exists can I ask where you get your stats from, and remember a higher percentage does not mean a higher gross number.
<p> And have you actually sorted out why you don't like this policy other than the govt suggested it?
<p> All the same, Bernard Keane makes a good point saying the skilled Oz workers would probably have families who may not be prepared to move to some hick town in WA. However, why do we have such a shortage of skilled workers? It sounds as if ten-15 years of third-rate schooling are finally taking their toll.
<p> I'll bet the owners of these giant mining companies have a special prayer. Something like 'Make it now; make it fast; make it transportable; bgger the environment.'
<p> Where on the Crikey site do I follow up this ? What 25 journalism students from Bond University investigating the tax's impact on business quickly discovered was how difficult it is to get answers. Edward James
<p> In the welfare states of Victoria and Tasmania you have large populations on the dole sucking the t1t of the other states tax resources.
<p> You've got large portions of unemployed in Western Sydney wasting their days away and adding to the crime of the area.
<p> I just can't understand why then you would bring in overseas workers to fill the gaps when these fit young men and women could be trained and sent over to WA to work instead of flying someone in from the other side of the world.
<p> Now Geewizz - You didn't answer my question, where are the stats that say Bernard was wrong and you wree right about the ages of the unemployed?
<p> As for your plan to send these supposed "large populations of unemployed" to the Pilbara, apart from the fact that Mitch Hooke of the Minerals council is dead set against it how do you see it working? Where will they live? How will they adjust to losing all their support network? How many of them have a wife and kids? Who pays for the training? Will they actually be mentally and physically able to complete the training?
<p> And given that we are expecting 65,000 jobs to be created in the next 3 years in the mining sector and there are 6,000 new jobs that aren't effected by the 1700 457 visa jobs at roy hill alone why do you think the unemployed can't get work in the mines? Is it that they prefer earning less than the minimum wage rather than $100k plus a year?
<p> " In trend terms, unemployment at state level in April ranged from 7.7 per cent in Tasmania to 3.9 per cent in WA and 3.3 per cent in the ACT.
<p> The other states were closely bunched: 4.9 per cent in NSW and the Northern Territory, 5.2 per cent in South Australia, 5.3 per cent in Queensland and 5.5 per cent in Victoria." SO you might have an argument for Tassie but the rest of the figures hardly point to "large populations of unemployed"
<p> I believe there is a disconnect in those Australians seeking work in the mining industry, and the skills actually required. The state minister for mining and energy in South Aus was on ABC radio this morning answering questions from disappointed applicants for jobs in the mining industry. He told the story of one smaller mining company wanting 400 workers during construction and operation of a mine up in the north of SA. The company received 4,000 applications, nearly all of them from truck drivers (some who had spent thousands of dollars doing special courses in driving those large mining trucks), but in fact, the company needed tradesmen, engineers and highly skilled individuals. Guess it should be obvious to anyone that there is more to mining than driving trucks - not that I know anything about mining! What we have here is a failure by the mining companies and governments over the past couple of decades to ensure we have a highly trained and educated workforce in this country. The current government is addressing this problem, but it will take several years to correct the damage done, mainly during the Howard years. And I understand that the Victorian state government has recently cut large amounts from the TAFE system there - not very bright, one would suspect. In the meantime, these jobs will have to go to those coming from overseas who have the required skills. Either that, or we close down further expansion of the industry and suffer the economic consequences. So, the moral of the story is - if you want a job in mining, go get educated - largely at your own expense of course.
<p> CML - A trade is what you need from all accounts, an electrician is especially good.
<p> David Hand - As I said my brother works 4 on 4 off in Malaysia, before that he worked 2 on 2 off in Bass Strait, the divorce rate of his colleagues is incredibly high. There are some real positives but missing out on seeing you wife and kids for 6 months of the year isn't easy and definitely isn't for everyone, to just say they are whingers shows your lack of understanding.
<p> I disagree with almost the entire content of this article. This is effectively no different from offering fly in, fly out jobs for the construction of these mines. They require workers with skills so up skill our own workers. The unemployment figures are a joke with those working as little as 1 hour per week counted as employed. If you actively are looking for work you may be surprised at just how little is available. And what is the ungodly rush to get at these mineral resources all about? Are you truly afraid that if it takes an extra year or two to develop the mines that they won't be opened at all? Pull the other one mate it plays jingle bells! Apparently there are a lot of new mines that will require construction workers so would not the training up of an Australian workforce be a good move? I expect this has more to do with the living conditions that the foreign workers will accept. These people are used to less room, intermittent running water, no hot water, no television and no union representation. They are far less likely to demand these conditions than are an Australian based work force. It is not good policy to allow these people in. There very presence reduces the pressure on these companies to pay higher wages to attract workers thereby lowering the amount of money liberated from the words richest woman into the economy. All of these arguments make me question bernards motivation in this whimpy attempt to justify this travesty to Australian workers. Slowing down the extraction of these minerals is not a bad thing for our economy or our planet unless of course you stand to profit in some way from their instant exploitation. et tu burnard?
<p> The clear and unspoken driver behind the ALP's problems with this issue is that we are talking about migrants.
<p> No Australian government or opposition of recent times is prepared to confront the communities widespread fear or hatred of people from overseas. Just like no state government ever says crime rates are getting better of rehabilitation is better than locking people up.
<p> Award rates, another misunderstanding - this from DIMMI on 457s
<p> The Migration Legislation Amendment (Worker Protection) Act 2008 (and associated regulations), including the obligation to ensure equivalent terms and conditions of employment, come into effect on 14 September 2009.
<p> This means that from 14 September 2009, all sponsors of primary Subclass 457 visa holders will need to pay market salary rates to their Subclass 457 visa holders. There are some transitional arrangements for current sponsors and existing visa holders.
<p> Two bob - This one project will take at leat 6000 Australian workers and UP TO 1700 migrants, if Australian workers are available they will take less migrants. You argue that it is very difficult to find a job but don't want these minng projects to come online as soon as possible? You are happy to delay or over 6000 jobs to get at best another 1700?
<p> And given we are going to have more than 65,000 mining jobs created in 3 years and WA's unemployment rate is already 3.9% and the national average is at historically low levels where do you think the people to fill these jobs come from?
<p> And I would also ask Geewizz and David Hand why a 21 year old girl with tafe trained secretarial skills who lives in Victoria is apparently a bludger because she doesn't want to go and work in the mines of the Pillbara?
<p> CML You have picked up on some valid points about our skilled workforce . How Victoria can cut TAFE funding while increasing funds to private schools is a scandal on any level . Surely if cuts need to be made they should be cuts to all in the education sector not just public schools and TAFE . Why the country stopped having Tech schools I still find puzzling as it provided a path for not only trades orientated youth but also those inclined to applied science . I worked at Morwell coal open cut and started as a trackman ie pick and shovel but in a decade learnt pipelaying , mobile plant , fire service and picked up St John training to intermediate level . This was with the SECV and and no fantastic wages but a living . I can tell you for sure that that environment is not for everyone with dust in summer and slush in winter , crib huts and weather to consider . Electricians are top of the pile for a lot of mine work because of the maintenance of conveyor belts etc with metal trades a close second because even after the initial build you have maintenance and repair on shovel teeth on excavators and so on . All my training was done in house and the SECV had a large apprenticeship program but privatisation knocked that down to levels that may as well be non existent . So no technical schools plus privatising utilities added to mines not training up their own people such as apprentices result in not enough skilled workers . Howard and his " skilled " training visas did however provide a lot of bar staff and hairdressers with the bonus of getting permanent status through agents . Not a lot of vacancies for those skills in building and working on mines is there ?
<p> So, it has taken 20 years and countless deaths and destroyed families for Bernard (and the ABC tonight) to realise that mining jobs are shit jobs and the workshifts employed are not so much a desire for cost effiencies in the workforce, but mainly to destroy the unions. Tired workers are not militant workers. So, its all about the money is it, and bugger the fatigue related problems that go with it. No point riding a jetski while your wife is in hospital from injuries received last time you got home!! You people, from your comments, have absolutely no idea 1/ What it is actually like to work in these industries and 2/ Exactly what is the net benefit to our Australian Community of making these fat or foreign billionaires richer and richer. Let me tell you, there is none and the sooner the gutless unions that have allowed their principles to be consumed by the greed of their members, actually make a stand for safe working conditions, the sooner we can get a bit of sanity into the way we deal with the mining industry. We dont have to dig everything out of the ground as quickly as possible. Unions, demand enforcement of safety regimes as some of your comrades are trying to do with BMA. Also demand a return to the eight hour day, why, because working with tools or human life is NOT safe on a twelve hour shift, thats why. The International Labour Organisation, to which Australia is a signatory knows that, but we dont bother to enforce those rules. Perhaps you would like us to end up like those workers in the new oil rush in the USA, where 18 hour shifts are the norm. You should all know better, but you are worse than the majority of Australians who get their world view from commercial advertising on channel seven. Your little knowledge is indeed a dangerous thing.
<p> Scott - Fair enough, I am surprised BK didn't check his facts. How many of the 45-54 age range are married (given BK was talking about married poeple between 35 & 54)?
<p> The overall premise still holds I would suggest though. A large number of unemployed are either married with families, unmarried with families and 15-19 year olds really aren't suited to working in the Pilbara (or at the very least those under 18).
<p> I don't see why we can't have the best of both worlds. Migrant workers who live locally can drive growth in depressed communities that have previously missed out with FIFO arrangements, whilst at the same time training up willing Australians for future projects. It's not like these skills aren't transferable to other ndustries.I agree that the problem arose through under-investment in skills training in the past decades. Given this is our second mining boom it seems evident that industry and government are both to blame for this lack of foresight. All the more reason to do something about it now. Another example of privatising the profits and shifting the costs onto the taxpayer. If anybody is sucking the tit of the government as suggested above it is big business, not the unemployed. I hope the migrants are able to join the union, pay taxes and stimulate local economies.They'll still make more money than they would otherwise and this would put paid to any suggestion of exploitation.
<p> Michael Crook some of us grew up with fathers who were shift workers, while we did not experience first hand what it was like for them. Some of us understand about fly in fly out. I have been posting to the crikey electronic soap box for years. How we finish up being governed says a lot about people like you Michael, with a gift for stringing words on a line! Edward James 02 43419140.
<p> I'm unsure why everyone is so agitated. Few would be making any comments if the media had not decided that this was yet another stuff up by Gillard and so, unlike Keane, used it to beat her over the head yet again. The miners got rid of Rudd, ABC, Fairfax and News will get rid of Gillard, and we pretend we are a democracy. Illiterate villagers in India and other countries have more political intelligence than the average Australian. There is a nauseous irony to this, where are the miners coming out and defending and congratulating Gillard? Not to be seen. I am at a loss to even imagine what the PM might do that would receive positive press and praise from the Twiggys of the world, she will be crapped on even if she resigned.
<p> As I sit here on a mine site in WA with a drill rig running behind me I thought I mat as well add some info. There are two separate issues at play here which need to be understood. Firstly there is the construction phase of the mining, which is what the EMA has been set up to solve and secondly there are the mining operations, drilling, digging, processing etc. There is no point advertising for construction workers and getting resumes from truck drivers; just because it says mining on the advert doesn't mean you stop reading at that point and apply for a job you are not qualified to do. There are shortages in both sectors, try employing an engineer, surveyor or a geo at the moment and you'll be paying top dollar for few people. The construction sector is no different with a shortage of electricians, welders, boiler makers and plumbers high on the list. The problem for the construction phase is getting qualified personnel, there are certainly a lot of apprenticeships being run at the moment, but not enough and they take years to complete. The other issue is that construction work is obviously only for the life of the construction phase and then you move onto another job. Some maybe years, some maybe months. The EMA is built to solve this problem, but rather than introduce a temporary visa the govt has decided to do this on a 457 visa which means that everyone who arrives can apply for residency. This is no different to anyone else who has arrived in the last 7 years on a 457 visa. It is a quick fix to the national skills shortage. The situation for Australian citizens is pretty simple - if you want to work in the mining industry, either in construction or mining operations - 1. get qualified in something useful to the industry, 2. Be prepared to move or be prepared to fly to Perth or Brisbane (or Adelaide) and then get on a FIFO flight 3. Be prepared to work in very cold, very hot, not very private sometimes environments. With the qualifications and the desire you'll get a job. But remember to earn the big bucks, you have to do it that hard way and often with these jobs you need to understand very clearly what it is your going to give up to earn it.
<p> Thankfully the drill rig has just shut down. The noise was driving me crazy.
<p> A good response Redtrigger. Good to see a sensible comment on this page. Mining jobs are c**p jobs for most people , so you go there, save what you planned to save, and get out. The mining companies hand out endless training in multiple areas which you take on board and gather lots of paper certificates. Those who like the lifestyle can save lots of money. While working in the mines in W.A I was offered far better paid jobs overseas which I assume is still the case. I didn't fancy Ghana, Siberia or an oil rig for any amount of money. Abbotoirs also bring in overseas workers as they seem to stay past the training period. That's another cr*p job.
<p> I'll also add that the foreign workers stick to their contracts and provide stability whereas many Australians have the easy option to walk away. A small percentage of foreign workers does not hurt, it helps keeping a little lid on inflation so the RBA does not have to worry about raising rate which will hurt other sectors, and inflation and interest rate affect all of us we have to pay for it whether directly or indirectly.
<p> I don't buy the "let the market decide" argument, if you want free market then open it up to the whole world and let the company choose who's best to fill the position. So what if a few foreign get the chance to earn good income for their family, it is a good thing they are people too, we are all one human race. Right now there are many Greeks seeking a chance to move to Australia for work and certainly there is a lot of public sympathy and supports towards them.
<p> I don't understand why we are in such a desperate rush to dig up minerals as fast as possible. If there is a constraint on labour because we need to train people, then more apprenticeships seems to be the answer. We might lose investment, but why is that not a good thing ? The minerals aren't going anywhere, at least not until they are dug up. I think it's very bad for our place in the world to have temporary visas for skilled workers. If they want to move here and there's a job for them they should be allowed to live here. The fact that there is already 70,000 people on such visas does put it in a bit of context though..
<p> The untrained elephant in the room is that few big corporations, least of all the, mostly foreign owned, miners have been offering training, much less apprenticeships - so last century - when they could just threaten government with being unable to get the stuff out of the ground ever more quickly. Someone above asked "what's the rush?" which, like the old cui bono should always be foremost when the megarich rent seekers "cry havoc and let loose the dogs of political war". The longer the stuff stays in the ground, the better for the common weal. The price may drop in the near future due to a world wide downturn but at least we'll still have it for the future, our children's future. Bear in mind that 10 years ago iron ore was $13 pt, today over $100. No reason it can't go down or up or sideways whilst this "investment pipeline" (or sewer) for excess hot money that can't find an exploitative home elsewhere. Let's call the bluff of this whole matter. The miners don't own the minerals, they hold Crown/Commonwealth leases concomitant on paying a miniscule RRT. Make that cost a proportion of the world price, it falls they pay less, it rises then the community benefits. Let's see them refuse to play and pack up their holes (in our ground) and take them elsewhere. For every 457 granted, stipulate that at least one (preferably 2 or 3 to allow for wastage etc) training position be funded. if they don't want to play by those rules say "tough titty now piss off" and leave the wealth for the next generations - we boomers have had it too good for too long and, mostly, pissed it all up against the HDTV.
<p> Families not prepared to move to mining towns???? There are very few mining operations that build the infrastructure or towns to move too, actually there are none anymore as families are only moving to towns that currently have family accomodation that was built decades ago when mining companies had to pay their way but still made obscene profits.
<p> There was an agreement that if a project employed more than a set amount of people on a long term mining operation, the miners should be bulding proper accomodation. What actually happens these days is dongers being taken to any proposed site!!
<p> We are not taking about permanent immigrants moving to this country as future citizens, we are taking about people being brought in on temporary visa, principally from China, Indonesia & the Phillipines (I wonder why)
<p> Call a spade a spade they are here for cheap labor for these greedy mining cartels & Barons.
<p> If there are not enough skilled workers, this is a direct result of the Howard era, becaused the No-alition cancelled the apprentice avenue and remoulded them to trainee-ships & we are paying for it now. There is no substitute for properly accredited tradesmen & women, another great stuff-up by the Fiberals.
<p> This is a dangerous precident allowing temporary foreign workers on mining projects & is designed to weaken the unions even further. I guess some pollies wont be happy till everyone is on minimum wage working 12 hour shifts.
<p> There will be no end to this debarcle & all Australians will pay the price at the end of the day!!
<p> If the government want to slow mining down they can limit the number of permits being granted, States want growth though. If we can slow down mining and have value added industries instead of exporting raw minerals is preferable but very hard to achieve.
<p> We have a situation where there is an oversupply of labour in office jobs and an under supply of labour in IT and engineering. If we want to slow mining down there need to be real growth in other sectors.
<p> The Australian Government has approved its first Enterprise Migration Agreement (EMA), granted to the new iron ore mining Roy Hill project in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship, Chris Bowen MP, announced today.
<p> Mr Bowen and the Minister for Resources and Energy, Martin Ferguson AO MP, said the first EMA was an important development in helping to meet critical skills shortages in the resources sector.
<p> "The Government's first priority is always ensuring jobs for Australian workers, but there is a need for temporary workers to help keep our economy strong," Mr Bowen said.
<p> "With more than 8,000 workers required during the construction phase of the Roy Hill project, there simply aren't enough people in the local workforce to get the job done."
<p> EMAs are a custom-designed, project-wide migration arrangement uniquely suited to the resources sector, ensuring skill shortages do not create constraints on major projects or jeopardise Australian jobs.
<p> Mr Bowen said the EMA would allow Roy Hill to sponsor up to 1,715 workers for the three-year construction phase through the 457 visa program, where they cannot find Australians to fill the positions.
<p> The project will support Australian jobs in the economy through training and apprenticeships, which are an integral part of the agreement and follows rigorous consultation with state and territory governments, industry and unions.
<p> "As part of the EMA, Roy Hill will provide up to 2,000 training places for Australians. This includes places for more than 200 Australian apprentices and trainees, as well as preparing over 100 Indigenous Australians to work in the construction industry," Mr Bowen said.
<p> "The EMA also sets out protections to ensure that foreign workers are only recruited after genuine efforts to first employ Australians, and that visa holders engaged on the project receive the same wages and conditions as their Australian counterparts.
<p> "Of course, the Government is committed to ensuring jobs arising from the project are filled locally. To this end, the Government will establish a Jobs Board, and expects that foreign workers are only recruited after genuine efforts to first employ Australians."
<p> The Government will also ensure that visa holders are aware of their workplace rights and obligations through a specific induction program, as well as having information available in writing, online and through video presentations.
<p> Mr Ferguson said the agreement with Roy Hill was the first of its kind and will ensure this major resources project gets off the ground and delivers long term jobs and benefits to the local community and broader Australian economy.
<p> "This is a great outcome for the industry, that will create new jobs and opportunities for the local workforce and drive growth in the economy," Mr Ferguson said.
<p> "We need Enterprise Migration Agreements to cut red tape for very large resources projects such as Roy Hill which have a very strong demand for labour.
<p> "EMAs address one of the biggest risks to many of these projects which is inadequate supply of labour and skills in the short-term construction phase."
<p> Has everyone forgotten that there are 6000 able bodied men who are desperate for work, who do not have wives and children in Australia and who are desperate to send money to them for their survival. Right now they are being sent out of detention centres to survive with no support beyond a temporary payment which is 89% of the lowest Centrelink payment, no English classes, no employment help to find a job- in fact not a penny is spent on skilling them up or enabling them to survive while decisions are made on their future. What a waste. They are highly mobile, many already travelling on buses from state to state looking for work. The lucky ones have found work in the jobs Australians do not want- abbattoirs, chicken factories, processing. Many of these guys have construction skills- not your formal TAFE accreditation but the tiling, welding, bricklaying, concreteing skills garnered by working since age 10 in a third world country where survival depended on working 12, 14 whatever hours per day. If the Immigration mob and the Labor government did not hate them with such intensity they might just open their eyes to what these guys have to offer Australia. No one works harder than a refugee who has landed a job to feed his family. Australians do not choose these jobs becasue they are hard, dirty and undesirable. Refugees do not have this choice. Please understand that i am not saying that they be exploited- they deserve all the protection which Australian workers get. No doubt this is at the bottom of the desire for the Mining magnates to bring in workers from China, India and the Phillipines. If they come in on avisa to work they get the boot and are sent home if they complain. Dont kid yourself that these workers have TAFE quals either- they will be no more skilled than the men from Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and Kurdistan.
<p> ps These workers are on shore and will not cost $1500 per person to land thus cutting costs to Companies. You have to ask why the mining mob are so keen to overlook what workers are available right here right now. The irristible attraction is that a Chinese, Indian or Phillipino worker is contracted by a company on a visa on a LOSE JOB_LOSE VISA basis. this is very attractive to acompany when they put the hard word on workers to do extra shifts etc or to take risks. who is ging to advise them of their rights out there in woop woop. In any case what rights do they have??
<p> As an electrician with 15 years experience in the mining industry in W.A., now running my own business serving the mining industry in W.A., I feel a little better qualified than Bernard to speak on this issue.
<p> Especially given that I occasionally do some research prior to making guesstimates dressed up as assertions.
<p> Bernard writes,
<p> given the location of mining industry jobs, it makes little economic sense to assume people from major centres in the eastern states will relocate to take them.
<p> And yet, relocate to take these jobs they do, in droves. As a minesite Electrical Supervisor in 2008, I had a crew of 10 electricians, of whom 8 had moved from Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia, and Tasmania to take up positions in the mining industry. Skilled workers will, and do, relocate to take up these jobs. We can make it easier for them, for example by alleviating the chronic housing shortages in some few of the boom towns (Port Hedland, for example) and by eliminating stamp duty on the sale of a primary residence, thus eliminating tens of thousands of dollars of taxation penalty currently paid by those willing to relocate to where the work is.
<p> Moving your family to a town adjacent to a major mining project is problematic: wages are likely to be high, but so too will housing costs, cancelling out the benefits of any income rise.
<p> I assume you have the figures handy for this little cost - benefit analysis you conducted, Bernard? Average income figures for skilled workers in Melbourne and Sydney, average income for the same workers in major mining centres, versus average housing costs? Presumably you have done these calculations and you have some basis for this outrageous claim?
<p> Having just left Kalgoorlie after living there for 5 years, I sold my house for $320,000. It's bang on the median house price, and is a well appointed, fully renovated 3 bedroom house on a quarter acre, with aircons, new kitchen and bathroom, reticulated gardens and a garage, in a good area. 10 minutes from the mines which pay about $120,000 per year to a tradesman on a 40 hour week.
<p> Can you buy a house matching that description, or earn that kind of money, in Sydney or Melbourne?
<p> No you cannot.
<p> Does the move from Sydney to Kalgoorlie result in the higher wages being "cancelled out" by higher housing costs?
<p> No it does not.
<p> Even in the most extreme examples (e.g. Port Hedland, where rent costs at least $1000 - $2000 per week for a family home) it is simply not true to say that the higher wages are cancelled out by housing costs.
<p> I was offered a job as a tradesman in the Northwest recently which sported a $80,000 per year housing allowance on top of the $140,000 salary.
<p> You are generalising and pontificating without the backup of facts, Bernard, and it is most unbecoming.
<p> Or, put in language more at home here in the Red Dirt, you don't know what you are talking about.

