<0441615>
<http://sociallyunacceptable79.blogspot.com/2012/03/mps-and-their-dishonesty-that-shames.html>
<Rater 1: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A12SMSQ6D5227J>
<Rater 2: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: A37QW51L039KKQ>
<Rater 3: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: AQHMXM5LLEP2N>
<Rater 4: OP_OB * RC * N * ID: AXE9Y0WSXHGIH>

<h> Subscribe To socially unacceptable
<h> Pageviews last month
<h> Follow by Email
<h> Sunday, 11 March 2012
<h> MPs and their dishonesty that shames this country
<p> There are two stories I want to bring up and discuss this weekend, both of which happened earlier this week.
<p> Firstly, as six more of our brave soldiers are brought home in body bags after fighting in a futile and pointless war (my thoughts and deep sympathy go out to their family and friends). The day after their deaths were announced this shower of shite government are seriously considering ending housing benefit for members of the armed forces. This would mean that subsidised housing will no longer be provided and that soldiers and their families will have to pay for private accommodation. This is a f**king outrage, not to mention a huge slap in the face to our brave men and women who are out there doing the most dangerous job of all. They are willing to possibly give up their lives in defence of our country, and the t**ts in Westminster want to cut one of the most important and helpful benefits to the soldiers of this country. There are no words to describe how angry that news made me feel.
<p> Our soldiers are already criminally neglected in terms of resources; there have been countless stories about the lack of kit or substandard equipment which has led to goodness knows how many preventable injuries and possibly deaths. Then the slimy bastards in Westminster have the gall to express their sympathies to the families of these brave men. These men and women shouldn't even be there. Peter Hitchens wrote a brilliant piece earlier this week all about the hypocrisy and falsehoods of this unwinnable and pointless war. I strongly urge you to read it (the link is in the side bar).
<p> If our politicians honestly want to save some money, may I suggest they take a pay cut? A new recruit into the army gets a basic wage of 19K a year, for that pathetic sum of money he/she put their life on the line and is willing to endure conditions which test human physical and mental endurance to the absolute breaking point, not to mention the very real chance of being seriously injured/disabled if not killed. In sharp contrast, the scum who are elected to serve the people of this country get a salary of 64K, plus benefits. The average wage in this country is 23K a year (I don't even earn that, I earn around 14K a year doing my tutoring job). Now surely the right wage for ANY MP (including the PM and members of the cabinet) would be 30K a year. Serving as an MP is supposed to be a vocation and a privilege; it is not supposed to be a way to get filthy rich. If an ordinary family have to struggle and work like hell to survive on 23K a year, then surely MPs could manage to do their jobs on 30K a year. However, as most members of the cabinet are multimillionaires, I doubt ANY of them will have the slightest idea about what it means to struggle financially or realise the implications for soldiers if they cut this housing benefit.
<p> If our politicians really valued the sacrifice and honest service that our troops make to this country they would take a huge pay cut. However, this feeds back into my last post about needing to realise what the default position of human nature really is before you can begin to sort out the problems in society. Much like the report within the NHS, that said the best way to be cost effective and save the most amount of money was to drastically cut the number of managers and middle managers from the health service, which was unsurprisingly rejected. I bet you any amount of money our MPs won't take such a drastic pay cut in order to pay for soldiers' housing benefit. This is yet another reason why I WILL NEVER vote for any of the three main political parties on offer, in this country. None of them have an ounce of integrity, courage or idea about what real sacrifice and service is. A plague on all their houses.
<p> The second story I want to touch on this weekend, regards the comments that were made by Damien Green who claims that the country is "addicted to hiring foreign workers." Of course we are Mr. Green. The reason for this again is simple; in most cases you can pay them less, often cash in hand and so keep the expenses off the books. The other key reason is because these immigrants are often willing to work hard and do the horrible jobs that many people in this country think is below them. To their credit they come from countries that aren't as well insulated from deprivation and the possibility of starvation as we are. In many of these countries it is often a case of you work or you starve. Consequently, they have a much more useful work ethic, they don't often complain and they get on with their work, and by enlarge do a bloody good job.
<p> However, the one point where I will criticise Mr. Green is where he talks about needing to wean British employers off using so many immigrant workers. How exactly are you going to do that Mr. Green? Given that we can't stop EU immigrants from coming and working here unless we leave the EU (something none of the three main parties would ever do). Furthermore, it has been shown time and time again that our boarder controls are frankly not fit for purpose (look back to last year and the reasons why the head of the UK immigration and boarder control left, after leaking emails and directives from his department and the Home Office.) Just how the hell are we going to control immigration? I agree that we do need to crack down on immigration, but then only way you could do that is by having far reaching radical and very un PC policies in place. Something the liberal elites who favour equality and diversity would never allow. Again, this is another great example of a politician trying to gain public support, by giving out half truths, but then not being totally honest about the reasons behind why and how we need to tackle the problem, or the underlying causes as to why it is virtually impossible to do anything about this problem, under the current system.
<p> Unfortunately, until the British public wake up and realise what a con job politics is in this country and stop voting for the three main parties, nothing will change or improve. In essence, the problems we face we deserve because we keep voting for them. What's that saying, the public get the politicians they deserve?
<h> 8 comments:
<p> Hi CC! I hadn't realised our housing was subsidised that much. When I was a singly, we paid for our food and accommodation. Accommodation charges varied, depending on the 'standard' of the building you were incarcerated in. Oddly, the best barrack I lived in was a wooden hut. It had been refurbished to a good standard, and had been well insulated. In fact I bet it was the best block on the whole unit, however it was classed as sub standard. And of course, the worst one I was in was classed as high standard..
<p> The fact that our 'leaders', the thieves of westminster, want to cut funds to the military is no real surprise. At the last Remembrance Day at the Cenotaph, with all of them lined up, did you notice how many had medals? Roughly? To the nearest round figure? No? 0. And yet I cannot see them offering to take a pay cut, or the useless civil servants either.
<p> As for the foreign workers. I think the active word is; 'worker' as opposed to sponging, idle, drunken scum. Mind you, we seem to have imported a lot of those too.
<p> As for party politics, the problem is with the party bit. Loyalty to the party is only exceeded by loyalty their own pockets.
<p> I'm ok, just had 3 weeks from hell at work. I've just been drained physically and emotionally. My school have pushed the very worst kids we have on me, and its been like a battleground EVERY single day. Obviously, when I've had that to put up with at work I haven't had the energy or the drive to blog once I get home.
<p> I'm really sorry my friend, and I don't like to leave loyal readers hanging like this. Please stick with me and I'll try and write more soon.
<p> In any case I was very very touched with your concern, that means so much, dear friend.
<p> Last week was the closest I've ever come to hitting a student, disgusting, rude and ignorant slob that he is. I had to walk out the room for 5 mins to cool down, and then I sent him to isolation.
<p> This young man pushed me to the very limits of my patience. As I say the last 3 weeks have been absolute hell and I'm considering handing in my notice at work, mind you with the numbers who are leaving in droves from our place, that tells you all you need to know.
<p> I'm ok my friend. I've just been very busy the past 2 weeks doing paintings for my first ever exhibition (very nervous about it I am.)
<p> I guess I've also needed a break from bloggng. As much as I enjoy writing, I need to be in the right frame of mind to think out my arguments and craft my thoughts properly. This past month I have not been in the right frame of mind, what with all the crap at work and this exhibition to prepare for I've had a lot going on.
<p> It also strikes me that the more I blog, the more I realise just how totally messed up our society is, and that most people don't, won't or can't see just how bad it is and how radical the solutions to the problems would have to be to sort it out.
<p> Since I started blogging it all became so obvious and almost overwhelming, just how dire the situation is. There are times when I get so incredibly frustrated and depressed at things that I find myself wondering if there is any hope at all.
<p> The other thing I wonder about is does anyone get anything from reading this blog? Am I making people question their own beliefs, am I having any sort of impact? Do people even enjoy reading my thoughts and opinions?
<p> I dare say I will start blogging again soon (after all it is quite addictive and it can be a good release.) In the meantime I honestly, and from the bottom of my heart, thank you for your continued support and kindness. I really do appreciate it.
<p> I hope you are well my friend, and please just stick with me until I get some breathing space and can find my muse again.

