<3113736>
<http://www.perrymanku.com/why-small-business-fails-at-social-media/>
<Rater 1: OP_OB *  * N * ID: A1OKNQ2JEXW34Q>
<Rater 2: OP_OB *  * N * ID: A2ZRYNS8R5JSY6>
<Rater 3: OP_OB *  * N * ID: A35Z1QH3JQEZG6>
<Rater 4: OP_OB *  * N * ID: ABQES53HKWCT6>

<p> Have you ever heard a smal business say 'We tried Social Media but it just didn't work'
<p> As a social media marketing services consultant, I personally have heard a few potential clients say exactly this. Inititally it used rattle my cage butovertime I have now mastered the technique of keeping a straight face when someone say it to me.  Social media is not a process or a 'thing' that has to be done. What social media really boils downto is that it is part of your business marketing process with the main priority of creating relationships with your target audience and customers.
<p> When it comes to the world of business, the use of social media as part of your marketing strategy can help youto createand manage relationships with potential customers and existing customers. Social media can help you be responsive in responding to customer service queries as well as help you generate new ways to increase sales for your business. If social media marketing is approached in the correct way, a small business can find it very beneficial. First and foremost, in order to succeed with social media it should be one of the marketing strategies used to increase your business, not the only one!
<p> Here are some social media home truths that should be noted:
<h> Social Media Takes Time And Effort
<p> For most small businesses  time is money and the marketing budget is usually small.  Mistake 1 that small business people think is that bevause Facebook has over 900 million users and Twitter has over 200 million users they can jump on the bandwagon with a quick social media fix! WRONG! What a small business thinks is that by joining social media platforms like Pinterest, Twitter, YouTube and Facebook, updating gaining followers and following and shouting about their own products and services this will be the answer. But whenthey actually sit back and wonder why their business has not gone viral they don't have the answer.  Well, the answer is simple.  Social media is nota quick fix solution. It has to be a long term process and it needs to be integrated into the overall marketing strategy of the business.
<h> Listening To Your Audience Is What Social Media Is About
<p> If a small business thinks by having a presence on a few networking platforms where they are pushing their products and looking for sales then they have totally missed the point.  They need to rewind and look at the words 'Social Media'. The operative word here being 'Social'.  Ultimately the bottom line for a business when implementing a marketing strategy is all about increasing revenue and sales but ultimately and more importantly this process needs to start off with a converation. For example.  If you met a person and went on a first date, would you ask them to marry you? Of course you owuldn't you would want to get to know them first over a period of time and decide if this is the person for you. The same apllies to social media. You get to know your audience and have conversations with them. The majority of people who use social media networking sites don't use it to be talked at, or to be sold things or be spammed by advertisements. There is nothing wrong with some self promotion but don't make the big mistake of sonstantly promoting and selling your own products and services. A small business needs to listen to their customer and audience adn respond to them with value, an excellent customer service and engaging content. Over time this will create a loyal and trusting following who will over time promote your business for you.
<h> Make Sure You Have Realistic Expectations From Your Social Media
<p> Any small business must go into social media with realistic expectations. Think again if you think you will get rich overnight because you signed up to a few social media platforms. It takes time to succeed. Just remember social media is not a rescue plan for a failing business you need to invest the time and build up strong relationships with your audience and customers.
<h> Social Media Isn't About Being Everywhere
<p> For social media to work effectively you don't have to create accounts on lots of different platforms. It is true to say you will always find a network to get involved in but as a small business you only have limited time, manpower and money to invest in your social media strategy. In reality when you create a social media presence it doesn't mean it has to be on everything. as creating account everywhere and not being active on them could do you more harm than good. If you don't have the resources to actively manage then don't set up an account.  What you should do is look at the channels that will be most effective for you and focus on those.
<h> It Doesn't Matter If You Are Not A Big Business
<p> You may be a small business and you probably don't have the time, money and investment a larger company has. However, you will have one main advantage over them. You can communicate quicker, make the conversation more personal, be flexible and build a stronger relationship with your audience. Your business is small but that means you know your products and services inside out. You do almost everything in-house which means nothing is outsourced. Implementing social media marketing into your overall strategy helps you to understand your audience better. A large company may send content viral but as a small business you can create an experience that is much more tailored to your audience. However, get that one post right and your post could go viral. Read how I made one post rocket into the stratosphere .
<p> Whichever way you look at it, social media is here to stay whether you like it or not. Hiring a social media marketing services consultant as part of your overall marketing strategy is well worth it. Getting the help of a local social media marketing consultant Essex based can put you on the right tracks. Social media is all about conversation, persistance, time, confidence, investment and a positive mental attitude. Want to do social media and do it well then what are you waiting for.
<p> Please leave a comment below if you found this blog useful. How do you incorporate social media into your overall strategy? To keep up to date with the latest in social media follow on Twitter , like on Facebook and connect on Linked In and Pinterest

