<0621361>
<http://www.minister.immi.gov.au/media/cb/2011/cb169279.htm>
<Rater 1: NA_NE * QU * N * ID: A37I58C4258IPX>
<Rater 2: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A13E3C65NKK51I>
<Rater 3: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A2RGVOJDMIKL4W>
<Rater 4: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A1A2KW49CZU1PE>

<h> Malaysia transfer arrangement, Nauru
<p> Peter Van Onselen: We're joined now by the Immigration Minister Scott Bowen. I'm emulating bringing you both together. No, Chris Bowen, thanks very much for your company.
<p> Bowen: Thanks, Peter. Good morning.
<p> Van Onselen: There's breaking news today: a boat has been intercepted north-west of Scott Reef; 54 asylum seekers on it, two crew. What is going to happen to that boat?
<p> Bowen: Well, what happens now is the new arrangements are in place which means the boat obviously gets taken to Christmas Island. That can take some days for that to happen. Then we begin our pre-transfer arrangements, which is assessing the vulnerability of people and assessing fitness to fly, and we begin the process of transferring people to Malaysia.
<p> Now, what the arrangement makes clear is that that turnaround time will eventually be three days from arrival at Christmas Island to Malaysia. As I said earlier in the week, you can expect that to ramp up over coming weeks. It will take some time for that to be fully operational, for that three days to be operational.
<p> But nevertheless, this is an important signal to send to people, as Paul correctly said in his introduction. Australia is more than happy to take refugees. I'm more than happy to take more refugees, as Immigration Minister. I think we can and should. But there needs to be an orderly process. And what we want to do is stop people making the very risky journey to get on a boat and come to Australia.
<p> Van Onselen: And that's part of the toughing up of the policy, I guess, to make it tougher like that. I just want to play something that Kevin Rudd said a little while ago. Let's take a look.
<p> Kevin Rudd: [grab] This government will not be lurching to the right on the question of asylum seekers, as some have counselled us to do.
<p> Van Onselen : That was him on the night of the coup. Is that what's happened?
<p> Bowen: Well, what we've got is our regional solution, with the involvement of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, who very heavily shaped this arrangement in terms of their feedback and consultation. And, as I've said, we are taking an increase in net refugee: taking 4000 souls and giving them a better life in Australia, people who either can't afford, in most cases, to take the dangerous boat journey to Australia or are not inclined to risk their lives and their families' lives. And I don't think they should be disadvantaged.
<p> Paul Kelly: But, minister, this is a much tougher policy than what we saw under the Rudd Government.
<p> Bowen: Well, it clearly is a tough message, it is; no question, that if you take that boat journey to Australia we're going to take you back to Malaysia. As you said in your introduction, 80 or 90 per cent of boat arrivals in Australia come via Malaysia. People tend to fly to Malaysia and then get on a boat from Malaysia to Indonesia, Indonesia to Australia. This is a very clear message: we're going to take you back to where you started that boat journey; you have nothing to gain out of that boat journey. The people who have something to gain are the people who have been patiently waiting resettlement but haven't been able to afford that boat journey.
<p> Kelly: So you now recognise that pull factors were far more important than what the Labor Party thought during the Rudd Government?
<p> Bowen: Well, what we recognise, Paul, is that we need a regional solution and that's what we've been working on for some time. Now, I can recall you saying on this program a little while ago, for example, that Julia Gillard and Chris Bowen want a regional solution and the problem is nobody else in the region wants one. With respect, I think we've shown that we can do that.
<p> We have struck an agreement with a key regional partner and that a regional solution is the most sustainable way of dealing with this. One country alone trying to make its regime more punitive, harsher, offshore detention doesn't make the difference that you require. I think a regional solution, which is what we said very clearly before the last election was the sustainable way forward, is what we've delivered on.
<p> Van Onselen: I want to get into the details of that in a moment. But I just want to play one more clip because Rudd was pretty strong on this on the night of the coup. Let's just take another look at what he had to say.
<p> Rudd: [grab] I believe it is absolutely wrong for this country, and absolutely wrong in terms of the values which we hold dear, to get engaged in some sort of race to the right in this country on the question of asylum seekers. I don't think that's the right thing to do. That's the direction the Liberal Party would like to take us. Under my leadership we will not be going in that direction.
<p> Van Onselen: This is very different though, isn't it, Minister Bowen? I mean, at the end of the day, before we get into the details of the Malaysian solution, what Kevin Rudd was trying to pitch to there, ultimately unsuccessfully to maintain his Labor leadership, was quite different to the direction that Labor has gone since then.
<p> Bowen: Well look, as I say, we made it clear before the last election we wanted a regional solution with UNHCR involvement. That's what we've delivered on. And I think the benefits are there for all to see: a) an increase in our humanitarian intake; b) also working with a key regional nation, a key transit nation on getting more consistent protection outcomes. We're working with the UNHCR and the IOM to have more consistent outcomes across the region, and starting with that key partner of Malaysia.
<p> So I think there's a lot in this arrangement. There's the tough message, that's very true. But there's also the more holistic approach to what is an international problem, and actually delivering on that, and achieving outcomes which many people said we wouldn't be able to achieve, with respect. And many doubters said, 'Look, this is all very fine but Labor is just not going to be able to get there'. We've gotten there. We've got this arrangement. It's an important arrangement. And it means, frankly, that less people will risk their lives and that people who otherwise would have died on that boat journey will live.
<p> Kelly: Can we just look at how this will work because we've had this boat arriving with about 54 people in it. So what does this mean? First of all, does it mean that all 54 people will be sent to Malaysia?
<p> Bowen: Well, what we've said is that people should work on the assumption they will be sent to Malaysia. Also, and appropriately, we will have pre-transfer vulnerability assessments in place. Now, we can't send blanket messages or blanket exemptions because I know how people smugglers work, and they will use those loopholes. They will say, 'Look, if they're not going to send children, we'll send boatloads of children'. And then we'll be dealing with another boat being lost, a boatload of children.
<p> But what we've said is no blanket exemptions, but we will have a pre-assessment in place which means we will look at each individual and assess whether it's the appropriate thing to transfer them to Malaysia. Or, if they are to be transferred to Malaysia, what extra care and protection needs to be put in place at the other end. And that's the arrangements in place. That's what will work in terms of this boat arrival and in future boat arrivals.
<p> Kelly: So what you're basically saying is that if there are [inaudible] these 54 because there are no blanket exemptions, we could assume that those children will be sent to Malaysia as well.
<p> Bowen: Well, nobody should assume, people smugglers should not assume that there's a blanket exemption in place. But we will assess, in terms of our obligations, the needs of each individual. Now, individuals cover a wide range, Paul, as you'd understand: women and children, and occasionally we get a young child who is unaccompanied. We get many people who tell us they're minors but there's a fair degree of scepticism on behalf of the people in my department who talk to them as to whether they are actually under 18. They could be well into their twenties but they are telling us they're minors because they are -- 
<p> Kelly: But just say we had a child who was unaccompanied. Would the assumption be unless there were other circumstances at work they would be sent to Malaysia as well?
<p> Bowen: Well, as I say Paul -- and I'm only going to stick to what I've said to you -- no blanket exemptions, and a case-by-case approach. Each person's vulnerabilities and each person is different. Each vulnerability will be different. We'll make an assessment.
<p> Kelly: Sure. Now, just say these people don't want to go to Malaysia. Just say they don't want to get on the aeroplane. What happens?
<p> Bowen: Well, it's not a voluntary arrangement. It's an arrangement which sees people returned to Malaysia. We've got appropriate staff now on Christmas Island. We've got counsellors, we've got assessment staff, and we also have Federal Police and security presence to make sure that all the appropriate arrangements are in place, and that's what will apply.
<p> Kelly: So at the end of the day we may see the police enforcing these people to go on the plane.
<p> Bowen: Well, the Federal Police will play a role in the transfer.
<p> Kelly: It could get quite ugly.
<p> Bowen: Well look, these are difficult circumstances and we've seen this in the past. We've seen this in the past in Australia. New Zealand is going through this at the moment [inaudible] are refusing to get off the boat in Indonesia. It happens, but we have appropriate arrangements in place. We have, as I say, counselling staff, support staff, assessment staff, we have security staff, yes.
<p> Van Onselen: How much is it going to cost?
<p> Bowen: The total arrangement is well known: $292 million. The vast majority of that is the cost of transferring those 4000 people and resettling those 4000 people into Australia. The other costs are involved in the transfer to Malaysia and the appropriate support that goes into place in Malaysia.
<p> Van Onselen: I'm not worried about the cost of the ones coming here. I'd be happy to bear whatever cost on that one as a taxpayer.
<p> Bowen: Well, the cost there is around $70 million over four years. And that goes to all the costs: that goes to the transfer costs, the transport costs, it goes to the transit centre which is being established for the first 45 days. So people will go to Malaysia for 45 days; they'll be in a transit centre. That's not one of the existing detention centres, unlike Mr Morrison's false claims. It is a centre which is appropriate: low to medium security, where those people can have their initial checks before they move into the community. It also includes supplementation from us. The UNHCR and the IOM -- 
<p> Van Onselen: What sort of amounts are we talking about?
<p> Bowen: Well, for the UNHCR you're looking at about, say, $10 million over the four years. And for the IOM we're looking at about $25 million over four years. That's included in that total cost.
<p> Van Onselen: And was that important to bring them on board, I mean, to be able to sort of get this deal struck as it was this week, those kind of payment to the UNHCR to be able to create goodwill?
<p> Bowen: Well, no, we asked them to be involved. We said we wanted their help in processing these people, both the 800 and the 4000, and the management of them, and of course it's appropriate then that we pay the costs of that involvement.
<p> Kelly: How certain can we be that anyone who is returned to Malaysia can't end up some way or another back in Australia?
<p> Bowen: Well, we've made it very clear that they will get no special treatment in terms of resettlement, so that anybody who gets returned from Australia to Malaysia would not be part of the 4000 that get returned. But of course, Australia also has an existing resettlement quota from Malaysia, and if the UNHCR assesses those cases as being worthy of resettlement they would then refer them either to us or other resettlement countries.
<p> In effect, there's three resettlement countries around the world: United States, Canada and Australia. About 90 per cent of people who get resettled, get resettled to one of those countries. If the UNHCR makes the decision that somebody in Malaysia who has been transferred by us is a compelling case and it's appropriate to be resettled, then we would consider that in the normal course of events but there would be no special treatment for those people.
<p> Kelly: Okay, so they could in the normal course of events end up back in this country though?
<p> Bowen: In the normal course of events, yes, if they were dealt with by the UNHCR. If the UNHCR had decided that now is the time to seek resettlement in line with the other 90 000 people in Malaysia awaiting processing and resettlement, then they would be resettled in to a resettlement country, one of which might be Australia. But there's certainly no special deals and no preferential treatment for those people to be resettled into Australia.
<p> Kelly: I'd just like to ask you about the nature of this model. I mean, would you see this model being extended either terms of Malaysia, that is with more than 800 people being taken as we go further down the track with some sort of new agreement with Malaysia, and would you also be interested in extending this model to other countries in the region?
<p> Bowen: Well, two points there. The Malaysian Minister has said let's see how this works. The Malaysian Government treats this, if you like, as a pilot project. Let's see how it works. And the Malaysian Government has indicated that if it's successful from their point of view, they'd be happy to look at extending it, and that reflects my views. And, secondly, we have a regional framework now, negotiated very clearly by this government, by the Foreign Minister and I, in terms of engagement between regional countries in terms of breaking the people smugglers' business model.
<p> But I want to say this, Paul: I think we're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves. We've only just [inaudible] this agreement. Let's see how it works, if it fundamentally changes the decision of people as to whether to make that boat journey to Australia -- it means they have nothing to gain out of coming to Australia in terms of resettlement into Australia -- so I think it fundamentally changes that. Let's see that have some impact, let it work, and then we can assess further down the road.
<p> Van Onselen: Can I just take a step back on this and try to understand what has changed in the mind of the government since being elected in 2007? I mean, Chris Evans brought quite a different approach initially. What in your eyes or in the government's eyes have you either conceded you got wrong or noticed for the last few years in the nature of this particular issue?
<p> Bowen: Well, when we came to office there was a regime in place which involved temporary protection visas. We had the view they didn't work because the number of people who arrived in Australia after the introduction of temporary protection visas went up. The number of women and children on boats went up because there was no family reunion. So we abolished those; the right thing to do. It had Nauru in place. We abolished that as a place of detention; the right thing to do.
<p> Van Onselen: Is it just political posturing not to open that back up again?
<p> Bowen: No, not at all.
<p> Van Onselen: The Opposition continually calls for it.
<p> Bowen: Yeah, they do. If you ask Mr Morrison any question at all, he'll say the answer is Nauru. Well, the question is, how does Nauru work? Because the majority of people assessed as refugees in Nauru came to Australia. Now, Mr Morrison has to answer it. He might take the opportunity even today to say, well, the people who get sent to Nauru under his model, where will they go? Will they be resettled in another country - what is it, tell us what it is, what arrangement do they have in place? Or will they come to Australia? If they come to Australia then where is the disincentive to get on a boat? That means you get on a boat, you come to Australia, you get taken to Nauru, and then you come to Australia again. No disincentive whatsoever.
<p> Kelly: But what you're actually saying here is that Nauru is too soft, that the Coalition's policy is too soft.
<p> Bowen: Well, what I'm saying is that it's an inappropriate policy because what it did is -- 
<p> Kelly: But what you're saying is the policy is too soft.
<p> Bowen: I'm saying the policy did not break the people smugglers' business -- 
<p> Van Onselen: Let me jump in on this -- 
<p> Bowen: It did not break the people smugglers' business model, but it did break some people along the way by putting them in Nauru and leaving them there for five years. Yes, it did break some people but it did not break the model.
<p> Van Onselen: But, minister, what has happened in this debate, you are effectively saying, as Paul says, that Nauru is too soft. We've now got Mr Morrison effectively saying that Malaysia is too tough and too inhumane. It's almost like you've flipped in this debate.
<p> Bowen: Well, it's quite clear the Liberal Party will go to any lengths, any lengths, to try and break this agreement because I suspect they think it will work. I suspect they can see their business model of cheap slogans going out the window because they know that this model has potential to work. And I notice Mr Morrison has started positioning for that by saying, 'Oh look, it doesn't matter if this works in the end, what's important is the past'. Well, the key is that this does break the people smugglers' business model and it delivers on our commitment of regional engagement for a regional solution to a regional problem.
<p> Kelly: Do you agree in terms of the design of this model that this is tougher than anything the Howard Government did?
<p> Bowen: Well, I agree that it breaks the people smugglers' business model more effectively than anything the Howard Government did. But it doesn't put people in Nauru for five years, leave them there, forget about them. And we still have people in Australia who were resettled from Nauru who still have considerable emotional difficulties about the time they spent in Nauru. So it's a very different approach but it does send -- 
<p> Van Onselen: But what about the emotional -- 
<p> Bowen: But it does send a very tough and strong message that if you come to Australia by boat you will be returned to Malaysia and you will have no preferential treatment in your processing. I agree with you that is a tough message.
<p> Kelly: Just how confident are you that you can keep the Labor Party behind this policy?
<p> Bowen: Well look, I've had a strong degree of feedback from my colleagues that they recognise that a regional solution is necessary. They certainly appreciated the way the Cabinet has handled this. There's been a strong degree of consultation with the caucus. I've spent a lot of time -- 
<p> Kelly: So you can keep them locked in, you think.
<p> Bowen: Well look, the Labor Party, the federal caucus has been very supportive. They've had appropriate questions to ask about protections in place. And certainly the feedback I've had is that there's been a strong degree of support for the safeguards and measures that have been put in place in terms of this arrangement, yes.
<p> Kelly: But, I mean, there's a trap for you here, isn't there, because once people are returned to Malaysia, then there will be an effort to look at the actual conditions they're living in, in terms of the educational and employment opportunities. And aren't you concerned that when we actually look at the situation on the ground there will be very significant reasons to be concerned about the deal?
<p> Bowen: Well look, as I say, I think the protections and safeguards we built into this arrangement are ones which many people thought we would never achieve: the commitment that people would be able to remain lawfully in Malaysia, which means all the nonsense - the Morrison myths - about caning and detention centres have just been shown to be patently false. People will have the right to remain lawfully, be treated with dignity and respect in accordance with human rights standards, have work rights, and have access to health and education. Now, it's basic health and education. It's not a land of milk and honey in Malaysia, I agree with you.
<p> But what we have done is said that people will be treated in accordance with those basic protections. But I do not envisage -- for example, I've seen some claims that people will come to Australia so that they could return to Malaysia and get these better protections -- I don't envisage that being the case. Why would you pay the $10 000 to a people smuggler to come to Australia to go back to get work rights to get money to pay back that $10 000? The economic equation doesn't make sense. But what is important is that we've built in those protections.
<p> Van Onselen: But it's not just the Liberal Party that has raised concerns here. Your alliance partner in government, if you like, the Greens, have also raised some concerns. So it's almost brought a uniting of concern over Malaysia to both the Liberal Party and the Greens.Let's just take a look at some comments.
<p> Scott Morrison: [grab] Human rights protections simply aren't there. The UNHCR, I note, is not a signatory to this agreement. The UNHCR have only signed up to take what will be tens of millions of dollars from the Australian taxpayer to add to their overwhelmed resources in Malaysia.
<p> Sarah Hanson-Young: [grab] How can we guarantee that 800 people that Australia expels to Malaysia - very vulnerable people - will be treated any differently than the 94 000 others in Malaysia?
<p> Van Onselen: Let's start with Senator Hanson-Young and the Greens' concerns. I mean, the guarantees about these 800 -- you mentioned before that in Nauru people had mental problems as a result of being there -- what about the 800 people that are going to find themselves in Malaysia?
<p> Bowen: Well look, we have a different approach to the Greens on these issues. Yes, we agree on some things; we disagree on others. We disagree fundamentally on this; that's accurate.The Greens would have the view that there's no problem with people getting on a boat and coming to Australia. They have the view that it is morally superior to provide an advantage to people who get on that boat, come to Australia to give them a better chance of resettlement. I respectfully disagree. These are complex issues but I respectfully disagree with that view.
<p> I think it's better to have a better outcome for the 4000 people who are waiting for resettlement in Malaysia and to provide for those 800 people to return with those basic protections in place. I think holistically, anybody looking at this arrangement would see that the benefits for the 4000 people being resettled and the improved arrangements, the improved engagement of the UNHCR in Malaysia. This is an opportunity for the UNHCR to engage much more closely with this country, Malaysia, which has had a very large increase in asylum seekers over the last four years and have been dealing with that. And it's also been an opportunity for us to talk to Malaysia and UNHCR about these issues, and Malaysia have indicated they are examining how they approach these issues. They've also indicated, for example, they're examining work rights for all asylum seekers. And I think our engagement with the UNHCR has been a useful step in that process.
<p> Van Onselen: Let me ask something quite specific. Section 198A of the Act: now, that's the part that stipulates whether a country affords protection or not to asylum seekers. Now, the Liberal Party when they sent asylum seekers to both Nauru and Papua New Guinea, they had that in place. At Senate estimates, the department -- your department -- said that that was not the case and you were seeking legal advice about whether or not it was necessary. Instead, you look to do it under the general removal provisions in the Act. Why do it differently? Why not just go straight to Section 198A?
<p> Bowen: Well, the advice I have is that you can use both clauses to remove people to Malaysia, and that's what we'll do.
<p> Van Onselen: There's no reason for jumping from one to another?
<p> Bowen: No, not at all. And I've signed the declaration under 198A as an appropriate removal country. But also we have other powers of removal under the Immigration Act.
<p> Kelly: Minister, can you tell us, as far as you're concerned, what is the test for success of this policy?
<p> Bowen: Well, I think the test is that it breaks the people smugglers' business model.
<p> Van Onselen: But what's that mean?
<p> Bowen: Well, we see a reduction in boat arrivals. And, look, we've already seen some impact of this, Paul. I don't overstate this. But the fact of the matter is that June was the second lowest month for boat arrivals since 2009, and July was the third lowest month for boat arrivals since 2009. Now, Mr Abbott can say, 'Oh look, there's been arrivals'. Yes, there have been but the arrivals are significantly down. I think we've seen some announcement effect. Again, there's a range of factors.
<p> Kelly: So you think the policy is working already due to the announcement effect?
<p> Bowen: Yes, I think it's had an impact. I don't say all the reduction is due to the announcement; of course not. There's a range of factors; there always is. The situation in Sri Lanka has improved, for example, over the last year. That means we've seen a reduction in the people arriving from Sri Lanka for a period. There's always a range of measures.
<p> But I think when you look at the situation, the clear fact: June, the second lowest month; July, the third lowest month; and more than 1000 less arrivals in the same time period last year, then you have to say -- 
<p> Van Onselen: But whether they're lower -- 
<p> Bowen: Something has changed, and the thing that's changed in more recent times is the announcement that people will be returned to Malaysia.
<p> Van Onselen: But even if you accept that things have changed and the numbers are lower, there's still been nearly 600 arrivals since the announcement in May. Now, that's close to the 800 cap. So if that happens over the next three or four months, you are going to need another arrangement beyond the cap of 800.
<p> Bowen: As I said before, let's just see this operate.
<p> Van Onselen: We're only talking three months here. I'm not asking you to speculate three years ahead.
<p> Bowen: No, no, but let's see it operate. And I think, you know, obviously people smugglers will sell anything, and they will say, and they're already out there saying, I've got no doubt, 'Oh look, this doesn't apply to you, I'll get you on a boat'. Or, 'Look, you know, Australia won't be able to deliver this, this is all talk', this is, you know, what the people smugglers will be selling. Now, I think -- 
<p> Kelly: But isn't Nauru -- 
<p> Bowen: I think people in Indonesia and Malaysia and elsewhere, in all source countries, in transit countries, will be watching this arrangement closely and seeing it implemented. And we need to see -- 
<p> Van Onselen: With respect, I don't think that the wait and see approach can fit in the timeframe that we're talking about. It's taken months to get this deal. This has been an issue for years and we're only talking about it needing a matter of months, even on the reduced figures, to hit the 800 cap. I mean, it's not good enough, surely?
<p> Bowen: Well, as I've said, let's see it operate, let's see the impact that it has. The Malaysian Government have said that they're open to talk about further extensions. I've said we're open to talk to other countries. It's well known, for example, we've been in discussions with Papua New Guinea as one example, under the regional framework.We negotiated that regional framework back in March. Again, people said, 'Oh, regional framework will never happen'. We actually got one and negotiated in Bali -- 
<p> Van Onselen: So you think this is going to make it easier to get them again, essentially? Breaking into the first time of having the regional framework will make it easier?
<p> Bowen: Well, obviously, this is new territory for the region. And, obviously, having negotiated the arrangement there's been a lot of effort go into it. Now, you say, rightly, it's taken some time. Yes, of course it has. I first discussed this with my Malaysia counterpart Minister Hishammuddin last December. I mean, I struggle to find any arrangement or any agreement of this complexity and importance around the world that had been settled in that short a time period from December to July, and then those operational details settled between May and July. I think that was a significant achievement for the government.
<p> Kelly: Minister, is it your hope that the 800 numbers are never filled?
<p> Bowen: Yes.
<p> Kelly: And do you think that's realistic?
<p> Bowen: Well look, as I say, I'm not going to overstate. We're all in new territory and we need to see the impact this has. Some people have criticised us because we've said, look, if we don't end up sending the 800 we'll still take the 4000. Well, if we don't end up sending 800 because 800 people haven't arrived, but we can still increase our humanitarian intake, I think that's a pretty good outcome.
<p> Kelly: So the real effect of this policy is that the boat people who arrive now are really going to be the bunnies, aren't they? I mean, they are going to be subject to this punitive policy as a disincentive to ensure that others don't come.
<p> Bowen: They are going to be subject to return to Malaysia as a disincentive to get on the boat. That's the language I would use.
<p> Kelly: And when they are returned to Malaysia - we know there are 90 000 asylum seekers and refugees in Malaysia now -- how long will they have to remain in Malaysia before their cases are settled?
<p> Bowen: Well, they'll be settled in line with the UNHCR guidelines and mandates. And there is no -- as I said before -- no particular special treatment.
<p> Kelly: There's no special treatment, but what does that mean in terms of the number of years they might have to wait?
<p> Bowen: Well, it depends on their individual circumstances. The UNHCR assesses each case. Now, the UNHCR looks at the potential for integration into the local community, and in many senses they see that for many people as a sustainable outcome. For others they look at resettlement; it depends. They look at all sorts of factors to go into whether to recommend resettlement, and that includes vulnerabilities, if they have people with family links in other countries, whether it be Australia, United States, Canada; they look at that. And then they make an assessment about whether to refer that person, and they look at that person's needs in line with the needs of other people waiting for resettlement.So some get resettled relatively quickly; others have to wait a substantial period of time.
<p> Kelly: Now, we know the UNHCR had reservations about this bilateral deal. What sort of assurances did you have to give them and how difficult was it to get their support?
<p> Bowen: Well look, they have a particular job and their job is, in many senses, the guardian of refugees around the world, and that's an appropriate job for them to take. And they took an appropriately strong view in these discussions that there needed to be important safeguards put in place, and their feedback very much shaped this arrangement. Their feedback shaped the terms of those clauses that you see in terms of protections and support. They indicated that that would be appropriate for them if they were going to be involved, and that's what we've been able to deliver with the Malaysian Government.
<p> Kelly: And they will have an ongoing role in supervising these arrangements. So presumably their ongoing support will be essential for you?
<p> Bowen: Which is the monitoring and implementation group. They're involved in the processing of the 800 and the 4000, so yes. The Malaysian Government agrees with us on this. I've seen some speculation that Malaysia wouldn't want the UNHCR involved; that's nonsense. Right from December the Malaysian Minister and I agreed that if this were to work we would need UNHCR involvement and IOM involvement.
<p> And yeah, sure, would it have been quicker if we just had a bilateral agreement with Malaysia with no consultation with the UNHCR? Yeah, it probably would have been. But it wouldn't have been the outcome that we got, which is a proper regional arrangement with UNHCR involvement and very much their feedback influencing the arrangement.
<p> Van Onselen: Mr Bowen, you have to know that media will be over there when the first set of asylum seekers are sent over, that there will be people following these individuals that get sent over?
<p> Bowen: Sure.
<p> Van Onselen: Checking on their treatment, on their living standards, how they're going, potentially interviewing them through the course of all of this. There's a lot of political risk in all of that, you realise?
<p> Bowen: Yes, I recognise that there will be interest and there will be transparency, unlike Nauru, by the way, where journalists weren't allowed to go and lawyers weren't allowed to go, because they were denied visas. People will be able to go, they will be able to check on this arrangement. And we'll have an implementation task force and we'll also have an advisory group of non-government organisations as well helping us with this arrangement.Now, will life be perfect and easy for everybody sent to Malaysia? Of course it won't be, of course it won't be. But have we built in important protections and safeguards? Yes, we have.
<p> Kelly: We're taking an extra thousand refugees, of course, under this arrangement. And this is important in terms of the model and also in terms of the domestic politics here. Are you disappointed that there hasn't been all that much emphasis on the fact that we are taking an extra 4000 refugees?
<p> Bowen: Well, I think some people have ignored that conveniently, Paul; I think that's right.I think some people very much focus on the 800, and that fine; I accept and understand the focus on the 800. But there are 4000 souls who are going to get a better life, resettlement in Australia which they wouldn't have otherwise had. I was very keen to make sure that was part of this arrangement and I'm very glad of the fact that we've been able to do that.
<p> Kelly: To what extent in the future are you prepared to advance this model and take more refugees offshore in terms of getting fresh disincentives to stop boating here?
<p> Bowen: Well, I think the Australian people understand and welcome refugees, and accept that we should welcome refugees as a developed compassionate nation. The Australian people, rightly in my view, expect an orderly process to that. They expect people who have been waiting for resettlement through the UNHCR to have the chance, a better chance at resettlement. And they expect that people who take that dangerous journey should not have the opportunity for advanced or preferential treatment. And I think this model shows that that can be delivered. And, as I've said, we'll continue under the regional framework to engage with other nations, including Malaysia.
<p> But we've been working pretty hard at inking this arrangement, making sure that all the appropriate standards and protections and arrangements are in place. I'm glad we've been able to do that. Now just let us get on with the job of implementing it.
<p> Kelly: Now, you concede the point that your job as Immigration Minister is effectively on the line with this deal, that this deal will make or break you as minister?
<p> Bowen: Well, as minister I'm responsible for getting us this far, I'm responsible for the arrangements put in place, and I'll be responsible for its ongoing implementation.
<p> Van Onselen: Alright, Chris Bowen, thank you very much for your company and joining us on Australian Agenda. I hoped that we were going to go a little bit wider in your portfolio, but this is the issue [inaudible] and unsurprisingly we got bogged down on it.
<p> Bowen: Well, let's take the opportunity next time as well to talk about skilled migration and all the other important issues.
<p> Van Onselen: We will do that. Next time we'll talk about something other than the Malaysian solution, I promise you. Thanks very much for your company.

