<0300776>
<http://www.gommamag.com/v5/gm_int.php?id=41>
<Rater 1: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A39O2T3TC4NV83>
<Rater 2: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: AL9OE226A87UM>
<Rater 3: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A1P7QDWY4U2H6O>
<Rater 4: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A3LNPBZXHKKAA7>

<p> Gert: You have an outspoken, black and white, poetic  'image-language' , so I want to ask you if are you influenced by the pictorial, romantic photography of the beginning of the past century (genre Stieglitz etc.) ? Ester: No I don't think so. For me, I get more influenced by a good movie or a novel. Honestly I am not even that familiar with the old masters of photography.
<p> Gert: How do you relate yourself to the contemporary colour photography ? Ester: In the end it is the image and not the colour that makes the photo a remarkable one I guess... but of course there is this kind of hype in colour photography right now but i think it is less the problem of the colour than of the images themselves that are being presented as contemporary photography that sometimes I just don't understand. On the other hand, I just don't care too much about what is contemporary and what isn't.
<p> Gert: You are very consequent in your style of photographing : do you never want to mix different style of images (black and white mixed with color, sharp with unsharp, ... Ester: If you have a closer look at my work you will find some colour work too. I am just not that used to working in colour but I do take colour photos too! I think I have a big mix of different styles. I usually work with all kind of cameras and formats, films, etc In the end it is the editing that makes my work consequent. (There are actually some photos in my work that are totally sharp. Shot with a 4x5 inch land camera. So I don't see that point. I love to work with all different kinds of film formats and techniques.)
<p> Gert: Do you have a principal subject in all your work ?  What makes you decide to make that picture and not another ? Do you really search for pictures or do they just happen to come your way ? How does a series grow in your case? Ester: When I start a new project I usually have some kind of an overall subject to my work. Most of the pictures just happen to me. Of course I will take my cameras with me in the hope of finding something but I don't go out there and start arranging things to look good on film. But it happens that I go to the same place over and over again.
<p> Gert: An important aspect of photography is that photographers often work in serials of images. Your images easily can be taken out of the context of a series to be seen as an individual picture. Is the concept of a serial important for you ? Ester: Yes the serial aspect is very important to me. To find the right images and the right order for the images is maybe like composing a piece of music. It creates a kind of a rhythm. I love that part of my work. On the other hand first of all an image for me should be strong enough to be able to stand alone.
<p> Gert: Do you agree with me that there is something called 'male' and 'female' photography? Do you understand me when I say that I see your work as made-by-a-woman ? Or does that sound very stupid to you ? Ester: Nope! I don't see that! Sorry... For me there is no such a thing as male or female photography.
<p> Gert: You really don't see any difference between female and male photograpy ? Ester: Ok, true, maybe there is kind of a difference between the two but you know I am so tired of answering this question! When I used to skateboard I got asked that all the time. How does it feel to be a girl in this sport; same for snowboarding and now the same question in photography again? I am really not sure if there is a difference. Maybe in a sort of photography. but the work that I am mostly interested in, has definitely nothing to do with being a male or female photographer. Of course I see that almost every male photographer gets to the point where he has to do a work about sexuality, on the other hand there are female photographers who do that too, but for me, that isn't really that important.
<p> So all I can tell you, I just don't care about stereotyping what is female and what isn't.
<p> Gert: Is there a personal dimension in your work ? Is there a 'diary' aspect in your work ? Ester: Definitely. All of my work has a personal approach. Without that I guess I wouldn't be able to create something that has a meaning. If it wouldn't be personal it wouldn't make any sense to me to put so much of my own energy in to it.
<p> Gert: A very concrete question : I love very much your images of houses, probably because I see a great symbolic significance in these pictures. They really stimulate my imagination. Is that what you try to achieve with photography ? Ester: Yes this is what I try to create with my photography. To let the viewer find their own imagination or story in the photo. I love to create some unspoken stories in my pictures.
<p> Gert: Do you still work in a dark room? Ester: Unfortunately not. I used to have my own beautiful darkroom when I used to live in Berlin. Right now I only develop my rolls of film in my bathroom but I hope to find a darkroom again in the near future.
<p> Gert: Maybe I am wrong, but you don't give the impression that you are 'digital' photographer ? What is your relation with the 'technological' aspect of photography?
<p> Ester: This is a very interesting aspect for me. You know I love to combine these two things. In the end all that counts for me is the result. The image and only the image that stands alone as an image. I don't care about the technique behind it as long as the image is good. For me I see it more as luck of our generation. In the end I think we are the only generation that will be able to work with both tools. The digital and the analogue; I definitely see that as a gift.
<p> -----
<p> Ester Vonplon - www.estervonplon.com and Gert Jochems - www.gertjochems.be - are both founding members of the new photography collective ' Error! Hyperlink reference not valid. ' along with Olivier Pin-Fat , Tiane Doan na Champassak , Aaron McElroy and Daisuke Yokota . 'AM projects' was officially launched in September 2012 at the Unseen Photo Fair in Amsterdam - this was their first group show of their first 'project' - where they were represented by the East Wing Contemporary gallery. ??A book, " Nocturnes ", published by Dienacht Publishing was also released at Unseen with a book signing in the East Wing booth of the fair: www.unseenamsterdam.com at the same time.  More on the new photo collective 'AM projects' can be seen here: www.amprojects.org )

