<3289459>
<http://chizelle.com/chizelle-interviews-nicole-breit-writer-and-editor/>
<Rater 1: NA_NE *  * N * ID: A2GLHD5ZLC36BG>
<Rater 2: SP_IT * RC * N * ID: A27PJPWGD1QVJP>
<Rater 3: SP_IT * RC * N * ID: A2IA62NA4MKLSY>
<Rater 4: SP_IT * RC * N * ID: A3SNYAJ8KSW3U>

<h> Chizelle interviews Nicole Breit, Writer and Editor
<p> 1. What made you decide to be a writer and editor? And tell us more about starting Sparrow Writing and how it felt leaving the stability of your cubicle job.??
<p> Deep inside I always knew I was a writer. I enjoyed writing assignments in school and spent much of my down time in my teens and twenties doing creative things, including a lot of writing. In my thirties, I worked one job after the other, looking for the perfect fit. Most of my jobs included a component of writing and editing work. Before my daughter was born I started freelancing. I spent a lot of time wondering how I was going to ever find a stable job with benefits that was primarily writing-based, so I could finally, truly be happy. I never found that job. Even when I was commuting to work, I'd write poetry on the train (and at my cubicle on coffee breaks).
<p> Before I finally left the cubicle, I had been thinking for months about how I was going to get my life into balance. I had two young kids under 5 by then but was only spending 2 hours a day with them during the week -- getting them ready for daycare and school before I commuted to my job, and then putting them to bed at night... before I would start doing a few hours of freelancing work before going to bed around midnight, and starting the cycle all over again. ??Eventually the decision to leave what was an unfulfilling work and life situation became easy. My plan to start my son in a new daycare completely fell through. I spoke with my boss who approved an unpaid leave while I figured out what I was going to do about childcare. That created an opportunity for me to take all the freelancing contacts I had and start to market myself so I could work from home as a new start up, which I called Sparrow. In the beginning I felt anxious, but hopeful. Knowing I could return to my job in a few months made it a less risky proposition than just suddenly leaving. Now I know it was the best decision I could have made.
<p> 2. What is a "typical" day like for you?
<p> Because my work fits around my family's schedule now, I start the day with my kids. I get them ready for the day and check my email once, but normally don't have time to answer emails until the afternoon. When my partner gets home, I start working -- usually three to four hours in the evening, and sometimes on weekends. I have my 2 year old son in daycare twice a week now and on those days I work from the time the kids are dropped off at school or daycare until I need to pick them up. I love that I am able to work around my family's schedule now. I sometimes see friends during the day and get to spend so much more time with my kids. The hard part can be finding the energy to work when I've already been active with my kids all day, and working an opposite schedule to my partner. But the kids are only small for so long, and for us it's worth it.
<p> 3. What motivates you???
<p> In terms of my business, I'm motivated by the prospect of doing good work I enjoy, helping people build their businesses. When an assignment is inspiring and exciting and I'm working with someone I really connect with, I can't wait to get started. I'm motivated by work that is in line with my values and that honours my skills, talents, and interests. To have the opportunity to make a living helping wonderful people by doing what you love is fun, and is, in itself, motivating.
<p> I think one of my distinctive qualities is an unshakeable optimism that things are going to get better, even when I feel defeated, or when times are challenging. I also tend to see the humour in situations and like to make people laugh. I see life as already filled with challenges, so we should try to make life as pleasant as possible for ourselves and other people. My recently adopted motto is "If it's not fun, why do it?" -- but I also believe in not dropping the ball on the not-fun stuff, because it's a part of making life pleasant for others. I love to have fun, but I'm also serious about doing everything well -- from being a mom, to helping my clients, to being a kind, reliable, and generous friend. Oh, and to making good food. Good food is important.
<p> 5. What would your number 1 tip be for girls wanting to start their own thing?
<p> I hate to quote large corporations, but "Just do it" gets straight to the point. Don't wait to find out if what you want to do is cool. If there is a skill you want to develop, something you want to explore, or a place in the world that interests you, go out and do it, see it, or grab it. If you care about what people think, remember that people are drawn to those who are pursuing their passion. It's incredible how often the biggest barrier to getting what we want out of life is our own minds. If you feel like there's something you want to do but you can't, write down every reason you think it's impossible. Then write down all the reasons you can do it anyway.
<p> 6. What would you tell your 13 year old self???
<p> That those hours spent writing in diaries, writing silly notes to friends, and making pen pals in foreign countries were not a waste -- they contributed to the 10,000 hours of practicing a skill that would lead to an acclaimed poetry book and pursuing a life dream of working for myself. I would also tell myself that in ten and twenty years, I'd surprise myself with who I'd become, and not to worry so much about what other people think.
<p> 7. What 5 things could you not live without?
<p> Chocolate and red wine may be the key to my happiness, as are stationery, my laptop (including internet) and books. Lots of books. I know that's 6 things, but I don't think I could give any of them up.
<p> 8. What is your favourite quote and why?
<p> "Whatever you think you can do or believe you can do, begin it. Action has magic, grace and power in it." -- Goethe Beautiful and true.
<p> 9. What advice would you give to girls/women struggling to live the life of their dreams?
<p> I'd encourage them to take a really honest assessment of what is holding them back. Sometimes when we worry about going out on our own because we fear financial insecurity, we haven't factored in the true cost of our current situation. When I thought I could never leave my stable government job, I wasn't aware of my actual hourly wage when I took away commuting costs, daycare, work clothes, coffees and lunches on the run, the time I spent getting to and from work -- and the time spent away from my kids. When I realized what I was actually earning, and acknowledged the degree to which I resented my lifestyle, it was easy to jump. Do what you love, and meet other people who do what you love (and love what you do). By being yourself, who you really, truly are, you can find a way to live the life of your dreams!
<p> Sparrow was founded by Nicole Breit as a way to combine her love of words, her desire to support creative entrepreneurs, and her mission to live a cubicle-independent life that honoured the needs of her young children. Breit was a daytime public servant and night-time freelance wordsmith when she officially launched Sparrow in March 2012. Since then, she has turned her passion for helping entrepreneurs craft effective print and online business communications into her main gig. The heart of Sparrow is centered on the uniqueness of Breit's combination of skills and professional experience. With the soul of a poet, the mind of an editor, and the heart of a teacher, Breit possesses a sensitivity for the nuances of language, mastery of the mechanics of English, and a desire to share her knowledge through her website, blog, and her monthly newsletter. She has shared everything she knows about business writing in the ebook she co-authored with Jessica Oman, Communicating with Confidence: The Creative, Ambitious Entrepreneur's Guide to Better Business Writing (July 2012). She is also a published poet and essayist. Her debut poetry collection, I Can Make Life, was a finalist for the 2012 Mary Ballard poetry competition.

