<3379550>
<http://www.sceneinthedark.com/interviews/the-whigs-oct-9-2012>
<Rater 1: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A20VG7NZ13S29U>
<Rater 2: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A2NLMG8CL4008Y>
<Rater 3: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A2UM4ZM9X21JZU>
<Rater 4: SP_IT *  * N * ID: AZYL4DXPS3AK4>

<h> INTERVIEW: THE WHIGS -- OCT 9 2012
<p> The Whigs recorded their first album the way they had to: in a house constantly being altered to provide a somewhat-studio quality recording space, and with gear that had to be resold to make up the debt the band was left with after finishing their debut Give Em All a Big Fat Lip .  Nearly 8 years later, the garage rock Trio from Athens, Georgia now has four albums under their belt. They have also toured the world both as headliners and as support for acts like Kings of Leon , The Drive By Truckers , The Hold Steady, and The Black Keys. While on a very short break from touring in support of the groups newest release Enjoy the Company, I had a chance to talk with drummer Julian Dorio from his home in Nashville.
<p> Matt Pollock (SCENE IN THE DARK): So all of the members are from Georgia, but how did you guys all meet originally? Julian Dorio (The Whigs): Well Parker (Gispert) and I went to high school together. Actually, I guess junior high as well, but we didn't really know each other well until later in high school. I was a grade above him, and when I graduated I went to the University of Georgia in Athens. The following year, Parker came there as well. It wasn't until college that we started talking about playing music. Much like any band starts, you're friends and you have similar tastes and you start playing for the fun of it. We took it seriously but at the time, we had no clue what we were doing. We weren't thinking " this is our career " but at the same time maybe it was unspoken that we wanted to play music and we weren't starting a band to throw it away, or quit the next month. We wanted to work hard on it, but you take it a day at a time and see what happens.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: You mentioned similar tastes; what kind of music were you guys into when the band was just starting out?
<p> Julian Dorio: We were listening to a lot of the great Athens bands of that time. This is the early 2000s so I'm talking about a lot of the Elephant 6 bands. The Olivia Tremor Control, Neutral Milk Hotel, The Apples in Stereo, Of Montreal, The Glands and stuff like that we just loved -- and we still do. It was crazy to us that this stuff was just down the street. That was the stuff that made us want to record our first record.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: So after recording your first album Give 'Em All a Big Fat Lip , how did you get picked up by ATO records?
<p> Julian Dorio: After I finished college, Parker and our original bassist Hank (Sullivant) still had another semester left, so we would book shows around Athens on the weekends. Like maybe we would play Birmingham on a Friday, Atlanta on a Saturday then be back in Athens late Sunday. Then we started going farther. We would drive up to New York and play one show a month in 2006; that would mean some crazy drives. We didn't know it at the time but a Rolling Stone writer was at the first show, and he seemed to like the show. He wrote a really nice piece about it in Rolling Stone which caught the attention of ATO. A few months later, they approached us. We liked the way they dealt with things; they were really straight forward. At the time, the only run-ins we had previously had with labels weren't exactly positive. We were only interested in a label who could keep their word, and ATO did. It was convincing enough for us and it was the start of a really good relationship.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: Since then, what has changed?
<p> Julian Dorio : They re-released our debut, and we did two more records with them. This new album is our first release with New West Records.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: So the tour schedule is about to pick up for you guys. How do you all prepare for a long haul on the road?
<p> Julian Dorio: We have been doing a few shows with a couple of days off in between, which kind of leads us into it instead of hitting it full on. That is kind of where we are at now; we are about to hit it full on. I am at my house now and I won't be back for a good little while. But to prepare, we rehearse obviously. We don't want the beginning of the tour to sound like the beginning of the tour. We want to be well-oiled, well-rehearsed and give the best possible performance at all of our shows. The shows are loud, high-energy rock shows, and they are physically demanding. We would have it no other way but we to have to kind of stay in shape. Each show helps a little more, and Parker and Tim (Deaux) try to do a little exercising and eat well. That can be hard on the road, especially when you wait until after the show to eat dinner. The only thing open then is McDonalds. We try our best (l aughs ).
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: From when you guys have gone on the road with big acts like Kings of Leon, Drive-by Truckers, and the Black Keys just to name a few, does any single experience stand out to you now?
<p> Julian Dorio: Yeah we have been very fortunate to play some incredible venues, internationally as well. I don't know if any one show was like "Now we're successful" but there are venues like Red Rocks that we got to play with Kings of Leon that you just can't believe. It's crazy to stand there and look at what you are surrounded by; that was surreal. Doing television too, like Letterman, which we did a couple of weeks ago. We have been fortunate enough to be on the show a couple of times before but it never gets old. Standing on stage at the Ed Sullivan Theatre and thinking about all that has happened there, and all the amazing bands that have been on that stage, you know? It's those moments that make it easy to know how privileged we are.
<p> SCENE: What can you take away from those experiences?
<p> Julian Dorio: We have been very lucky with not only Kings of Leon and The Black Keys, but other bands like Drive-by Truckers, The Hold Steady and Band of Skulls... We are constantly soaking up and absorbing all that surrounds us.  It's interesting to watch bands like that play arenas, on that scale. We learn a lot musically from song writing and performing, and other things like how they take the stage or leave the stage or how they make set lists from watching them. For us, it's like free school. They have so much experience, and in addition to that, we learned a lot off of the stage: how they handle themselves as a band, how they work with their crew or openers, and fans. For most of those bands, it was a priority to make us feel welcome and that is admirable. It is contagious too, as we want to treat bands the same way when we are lucky enough to be in the position to do so.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: So the new album Enjoy the Company has been out for a few weeks now. What's the response been like on tour?
<p> Julian Dorio : It's been great, actually. Sometimes it can be tough to mix new songs that may work great on the new album, with older material in the live show. Not because it's that different, but because it's a different snapshot of the band, from a few years ago when we put out the previous record. So when you are playing a show and you're trying to fit everything in there, it can be kind of tough. I think we have all been really pleased with how these songs have worked their way into the set. That really helps create the dynamics of the show, the ups and downs of what we hope will be a good set list. They have been really well received and have made touring for the record, so far, really fun.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: How did you guys attack the new record? What about your process has changed since your debut that you self-released?
<p> Julian Dorio: Well, on the first record, it was a necessity to think outside the box. Even though we were doing it the way we did it because we had to, it did sort of force us to be more creative not only with the songs themselves, but how to record them. If the guitar didn't sound very good in a big room, we would take a couch and stand it on its side and make a baffle for that amp to sound different, you know? That was a lot of fun -- kind of empowering, in a way -- to hear something and not have it be what you want it to be, so figuring out how to change it. That was a really fun experience. It's not that we didn't enjoy that or wanted something different, but that was a completely independent record. Working with New West, and making this record with someone as experienced as John Agnello who produced the album, it does allow the band to focus on performing, on being the best drummer, or singer, or guitarist, or bass player we can be. When you have a veteran like John worrying about things like mic placement or "getting a different perspective on this sound" and doing things we are capable of but can work together on, it's very different. Like 180 degrees different. To get to work with someone like John or any of the producers we have worked with over the years is so educational. Watching them work only makes us better, and will give us tools for the next time we record.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK : John Agnello has worked with Bob Dylan, Mick Jagger , and a load of huge names. Is it intimidating going into something like that?
<p> Julian Dorio : It would have been if he wasn't the most awesome dude on earth. He is as experienced as you said, and the most unassuming, hardworking, lovable dude you'll ever meet. We immediately clicked with him when we talked on the phone while choosing a producer. Conference calls can be kind of tough for getting a feel for someone. We hopped on the phone with John and he had more energy than anyone I know for making rock records. He had been sent the demos and you could just sense the enthusiasm he had for these songs. For us, this music is our lives you know? This is what we do full time. It's very valuable to find someone who wants to get their hands dirty with these songs of ours, take it as seriously, and have as much fun with it as we want to. Honestly, you could argue that the songs most producers are working on are not their livelihood. They might take pride in it but it's not their band, and they will probably be doing some other record the next month. I don't mean to sound sceptical of producers at all, but with John it was exciting and comforting to know he was as invested as we were. The good guys aren't rare, we have been very lucky to work with people like John, Rob Schnapf , Ben Allen , Vance Powell ; these guys are some of the best for a reason. I can't speak for the other guys [in the band] but we have these conversations with guys to feel out how the match will be, butto be more direct to your question we were never intimidated. There was never any ego in the room; you don't feel like he is important. He's just one of y'all and you're going to make something great together. It was a great experience, and the album wouldn't be the same without him.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: So after these U.S. dates, what's next for The Whigs?
<p> Julian Dorio: We're going to continue touring, but things tend to slow down around the holidays. But around the beginning of 2013 we will definitely keep going. Hopefully we will get overseas before too long. But this run is a good run for now. We are stoked to get up to Vancouver in a couple of weeks; it's actually one of my favorite cities. It is a beautiful place.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: It definitely is. Will you be using the holiday downtime to work on material or are you going to take some actual time off?
<p> Julian Dorio: Real time off is nice, though it is rare. When we normally have downtime, we try to get to work on new material. We don't get that many opportunities and doing it on the road is just tricky. We're still at that stage of driving in the van with a trailer and loading all our own gear, which is fine, but it's not like we have hours on end to work with. So yeah, when we are home we try to play a little bit and get some new ideas down because we know we will back out on the road soon and we won't get the chance.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: So you just found out you're going to be on Jimmy Kimmel again?
<p> Julian Dorio: Yeah we tape Thursday; not sure when it is going to air though.
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: So up to L.A. then down to Austin for the Austin City Limits Festival . Who are you excited to see there?
<p> Julian Dorio: Well Neil Young is playing with Crazy Horse . I don't think anyone in the band has seen Neil Young so we are all excited. To state the obvious, seeing him live is a great opportunity. Jack White is playing at the same time as Neil unfortunately. The Shins are a little bit after us on the same stage which is cool. I was just talking to Parker about how great of a rock and roll lineup it is. Band of Skulls , Father John Misty , Weezer is playing, Black Lips ...
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: Black Lips are always a rad show; they actually played at the Rickshaw Theatre the night of the Stanley Cup riots here in Vancouver last year.
<p> Julian Dorio: How is the Rickshaw?
<p> SCENE IN THE DARK: It's great man, you guys will love it I'm sure. Thanks for taking the time to talk and I will see you at the Rickshaw in a few weeks!

