<0723368>
<http://www.thisisfakediy.co.uk/articles/features/born-blonde-weve-fucked-off-a-lot-of-people/>
<Rater 1: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A2GZ0MWS800M6R>
<Rater 2: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A1R7CJMWXC79UO>
<Rater 3: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A31VXFZVLRDZHZ>
<Rater 4: SP_IT *  * N * ID: AP8K8V5MJOGUZ>

<h> Born Blonde: 'We've Fucked Off A Lot Of People'
<h> Previous projects, astronaut suits and why space-rock might be the next genre to keep an eye on.
<p> Now is certainly a good time for your band to be compared to The Stone Roses, and Born Blonde has been receiving that line from music critics for a while now. This intriguing London quintet has been making quiet but steady psychedelic pop waves since their first song surfaced last year, and they are now ready to release their debut album 'What The Desert Taught You'. We sit down with lead singer Arthur Delaney right before their single launch party at the Shacklewell Arms in Dalston, to discuss how they managed to meticulously stamp their vision on the record, their previous projects before becoming Born Blonde, astronaut suits and why space-rock might be the next genre to keep an eye on.
<p> Your new single 'I Just Wanna Be' is out soon, what could you guys tell me about this song? We're really proud of it. It's quite a pure one, loads of detail. There's a Steve Reich inspired double guitar part running through the whole track that you can only hear on about the tenth listen; Tom and Josh put that down together in an inspired moment. The lyrics are pretty tight to how I was feeling at the time. We were close to finishing the album and I was trying to reach some conclusions on what it all meant; something beyond all the madness and synthetic ups and downs. You could call it 'the moment' or 'the here and now' but it's something less hedonistic than that. I guess the thing about the modern world is that you've got to keep running the whole time just to keep up. I think we all forget that it's important to just take the time to exist. There's beauty in the detail there but you can't see it if it's rushing past you the whole time.
<p> What would be the perfect setting or scenario where your fans should give this track a first listen? Definitely in the bath.
<p> I've read that your debut album is already recorded, mastered and ready to go. Have you decided on a name yet? Yeah, it's called 'What The Desert Taught You'. We decided on that because we felt it was a summary of everything we had gone through to finish the album. We got obsessed with the idea that we had left our road, gone in search of these songs and found ourselves coming round in a place of no feeling, a bit warped and void of all of the emotions and ways of being that you could normally associate with happiness. It took us quite a while to get back from that wilderness, and this collection of songs are about the journey out there and the attempt to get back; I think were one of those bands that are always up for really pushing ourselves in search of discovery, but this seems to always have a fall out or a price you have to pay for that. A lot of songs are about trying to cross the void between what your aspirations are and what your reality is. We all go through these periods in our lives when we're in crisis or can't seem to find the answers we are looking for from the world. Sometimes we have to spend some time away from what is real or true while we wait for those answers to come and to us: that is the 'desert'.
<p> The recording sessions started last year so you had a great amount of time in the studio to craft your songs, has this made you become perfectionists? We have actually had to tone it down a little bit as it was starting to get a bit out of hand. The reason we have ended up doing all of our own artwork and videos was because we kept getting stuff back from people we had employed to do it and it wasn't what we were seeing. We have fucked off loads of people that way. I guess when you see something or have a vision of it, it's really important to stay true to that. Otherwise your at risk of it becoming just someone else's impression of your idea, you know it sort of loses its soul and its relevance, we really hard pushed to see any point in that. To be honest, it's about building a team that you trust around you who are going to help you realise your ideas. In the studio our producer Barny laid down a new way of thinking for us, a lot of the time the way we were writing parts was so rapid that we just didn't have time to stop and think about them. Creatively that was our challenge, we had to break out of caring so much and into a place where we could express ourselves freely and subconsciously, that's where the raw emotion is. It was much more about getting the songs to a place where they felt right rather than an eye for detail.
<p> You mentioned you have "introduced yourselves progressively" in the way you put out your singles, should we expect this progression on the album as well? Yeah, we still haven't decided how we want to release it. I think when we said 'progressively' it was in the other sense of the word, as in guiding people into our world and making them aware of the different sides to us, but I do think the landscape is changing and you have to find a new way of making releasing a record interesting for people. There is still a place for physical but the virtual world online is really where it's at these days. In some ways it's a shame; there's nothing like having it in your hands, preferably on vinyl. In other ways, it's just pure progression. Music had to evolve to survive and sometimes I think we all forget that. The truth is that now you can have both; it's a choice and that can only be an exciting thing.
<p> What's the oddest thing that someone have said about your sound? What would you think is the best way to describe it? I think we would mostly describe it as Stargaze or Space Rock. Obviously its music so everyone is always trying to put a tag on it and file it away neatly, ourselves included, but it's important to remember that we're inspired by a lot of different things. Sonically it pretty Shoegaze: fuzzy guitars, grooves, and psychedelic dreamscapes. We wanted to take a bit of that introspection and make it bolder. We're into looking up not down.
<p> What type of feedback do you receive when you play live? Which has been your best venue/crowd so far? We have always worked hard for our live show to be a something a bit more than we are on record. I think that live music has a real power to transport people, allow them to forget about their worries or their shit job or whatever, to take them to somewhere else. We always bring our own light show to gigs however large or small so that the show can become more transcendental or transporting. This seems to go down well, people want to be out of their heads for a while and shown a good time so we try and do that for them. We've played a couple of times at KOKO which is always a blast because our sound is usually crushed into small rooms so it's nice for it to have some scale to breathe. I also think the second PURR we put on at Ginglik was a moment for us.
<p> Tell me a bit about the creation of the video for "I Just Wanna Be", where was it recorded? Where did you get the astronaut suit? We shot it all over London over about three days. We found that walking around with an astronaut attracts some serious attention from the general public so we spent quite a lot of time defending ourselves against hoards of drunks and tourists. It was all good fun. There's always a bit of chaos in the camp when it comes round to us making a video. Josh, who directs our videos with our friend Ollie Hadlee Pearch, goes on a bit of a mad Stephen Spielberg trip, never taking his shades off and not sleeping to get it done. It always seems to pay off though. Where we found the suit is a secret.
<p> You're also the masterminds behind the club night "Purr", do you have the next one already plotted? What can we expect from it? We always wanted PURR to be something a bit more than your average club night. We've done three so far. One at the Balaeric Shed in Kensal Rise and two at Ginglik in Shepherds Bush. Each one has to have something a bit different about it so we're not going to put another one in until we are ready. We've got a few big ideas up our sleeve that we're working on but we'd be perfectly happy not to do one for a while as long as we came back with something people were blown away by.
<p> You grew up in Shepherds Bush, do you find any inspiration from West London nowadays? Yeah of course, we live here. We've all spoken about moving out East but there's something to be said for not being in the party triangle the whole time and West is nice anyway. It's got its own dysfunctional community of old and young and a good feel to it. It's almost like London is four different cities at each point of the compass so I think our exploratory nature will lead us elsewhere soon but you've always got to keep a little bit of your heart in where you came from. The only member of the band who's not from London is George who comes from Hebden Bridge in Yorkshire. It's all about northern drummers.
<p> What were you doing before forming the band? What type of backgrounds do you come from? We had all been playing in various lineups before. I had my solo project going before and this band evolved out of that. Fraser and George had been playing with me and Tom and Josh had their own band together before that. There was a little bit of rearranging, people learning new instruments and stuff before we sort of fixed on what we are now. In terms of our background we all grew up pretty well, went to good schools and so on. We were lucky in that respect. I do think that there is some serious inequality in our world that needs resolving before humanity can truly move forward. Everyone deserves an education and something to aspire towards beyond their situation and I think it's a shame that those who have all the power seem to be so out of touch with the realities of life for most people. There are loads of kids out there who don't have a chance in hell who we should be giving opportunities to. There's loads of wasted talent and that's a shame.
<p> Which other new bands are you fans of at the moment? Which was the last gig you've been to? Vices and SULK who are playing our single launch tonight are both up there as some of our favourite new bands.They're sort of at different ends of the spectrum. Vices are musically really considered but they have the passion and emotion that we are always look for in a band. Sam always looks like he is possessed when he is singing live which is pretty cool and gives a bit of an occult feel to them. SULK are all about their crafted soundscapes but they're one of those 'not going to lay down and die' bands as well. They don't take no for an answer which we like. The last gig we went to was 'White Rabbits' at XOYO. We loved their last record so it was good to catch them. They were loud.
<p> What shows do you have lined up for the upcoming months? We have our single launch tonight (4th July) at the Shacklewell Arms in Dalston, a small show at Power Lunches on the 10th July and the Notting Hill Arts Club the next night on the 11th. Next big London show beyond that is KOKO on the 7th of September.
<p> Born Blonde will play a show at London's Power Lunches on 10th July. Their new single, 'I Just Wanna Be', is out now.
<p> Click like to get the latest music news, hottest tracks and more via Facebook.

