<1724553>
<http://lukechandler.co.nz/>
<Rater 1: SP_IT * QU * N * ID: A3TXO6RKFIDFUV>
<Rater 2: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A2RFWIPVXZ5ON1>
<Rater 3: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A3CQZVJVN8AVQ8>
<Rater 4: SP_IT *  * N * ID: A5A9QE4W8X1UI>

<p> Is there anyone you'd like to write a song with, or collaborate with? Jenn: Alanis Morissette. Kylie: Missy Higgins and Hollie Smith and Adell
<p> Is there anything you feel strongly about, that you're trying to highlight in your songs? Jenn: Passion Kylie: For me it's passion getting the whole message across to them. Universal everyone is on the same page
<p> What advice would you give to aspiring young artists? Jenn: Do the hard work and don't cut corners and remind your self daily who you are. Kylie: Believe in your self
<p> Where are you hoping to go with music next? Jenn: Everywhere! Kylie: Milky Way and I hear Mars is pretty good. Will.i.am called me to help out with his concert on Mars, but I did have prior commitments
<p> Jenn Shelton is a powerhouse vocalist who has worked creatively as a singer, songwriter, actress and a dancer. She has toured nationally with various groups. No stranger to the stadium scene, Jenn has performed with Ozzie Ozbourne and KISS, plus opened for Nesian Mystic. Jenn now teaches vocal technique and performance, and has worked extensively in Theatre (Education). Some of her achievements include an album for Mental Health Awareness, composition for a Fringe Festival play and more recently, Jenn was crowned 'Best Female Vocal' in the country on TV ONE's Countdown to 2011.
<p> Kylie Price is a Dunedin singer/songwriter who has been singing since she was 11 and playing guitar since she was 7. Kylie was the 2010 NZ Gold Guitar Intermediate Overall Winner, winning a return ticket to Tamworth to represent NZ. In the Country Comps, she has been Intermediate Overall Winner of numerous singing awards. Her love of Musical Theatre saw her performing in 'Grease' at Kavanagh College where she played Rizzo. Kylie also took the role of Reno in the NZ Premiere of 'Dusty Springfield' in 2010. This year she has been awarded Class Act at Kavanagh College for her Cultural Contribution, she has also performed with the OXO Cubans in their latest concert 'Big Night Out'.
<p> by Luke Chandler on November 24, 2012 in Interviews with Comments Off Tweet
<p> Before Christmas in the Park. Luke Chandler got to do a Q&A Session with some of the talent that were about to preform on the show. Chandler talks to New Zealand singer and former Sticky TV Presenter, Drew Neemia
<p> Q: How's things after leaving the spotlight of TV? A: Good, just focusing on my music at the moment
<p> Q: Where do you hope to go next with music? A: Recording quite a bit in L.A at the moment.
<p> Q: Who are your main influences? A: Usher and lately a lot of Jeff Buckley. I also love a lot of R and B
<p> Q: Is there anyone you'd like to write a song with, or collaborate with? A: Awesome Question, yeah Justin Timberlake
<p> Q: Is there anything you feel strongly about, that you're trying to highlight in your songs? A: Most of the songs of mine are a true story. Hard to write a song about nothing.
<p> Q: And finally, do you have a celebrity crush? A: Yeah, saw the new bond movie and it would have to be the New Bond girl. Oh and, Freida Pinto
<p> by Luke Chandler on November 24, 2012 in Interviews with Comments Off Tweet
<p> Before Coca-Cola Christmas in the Park . Luke Chandler got to do a Q&A Session with some of the talent that were about to preform on the show. Chandler talks to New Zealand singer Ria Hall.
<p> Q: What was it like preforming at the World Cup? A: Oh it was completely mind blowing and special, and I wasn't nervous at all!
<p> Q: Where are you hoping to go with music next? A: Releasing an album next year in September, and hopefully touring NZ and AU!
<p> Q: Is there anyone you'd like to write a song with, or collaborate with? A: Yeah a few people, Aaradhna and Fat Freddie's drop
<p> Q: Is there anything you feel strongly about, that you're trying to highlight in your songs? A: Yeah, I write my music in both Maori and English and my EP is bilingual with some English only songs as well.
<p> Q: What advice would you give to aspiring young artists? A: Keep honing in on your craft if you are a musician and a singer take as many opportunities as you can and don't be dishearted.
<p> I had a burning question, does a Facebook Message, or chat, constitute an OIA request if sent to a minster?
<p> I felt like I should post this for all to see. Just for interest sakes. I wasn't expecting the reply to be so long either!
<p> Dear Luke
<p> Thank you for your enquiry "does a request for information to a Minister via Facebook Chat or a post on their wall constitute an Official Information Act request".
<p> While this issue hasn't been considered in any detail before, we think it is possible for an OIA request to be submitted via facebook. However, facebook is not the most effective way of submitting OIA requests. I've set out some of the issues and difficulties below.
<p> First, there is a risk that an OIA request made by facebook will be overlooked, particularly with popular facebook pages attracting numerous posts. The systems within Ministerial offices for tracking and monitoring facebook communications may not be as developed or as sophisticated as the ones which exist in relation to postal and email communications. While there is no obligation to refer to the OIA when making a request, it would probably be advisable in this context in order to minimise the risk that the request is overlooked.
<p> Secondly, with Ministers, there may be an issue about the capacity in which they hold their facebook account. Take John Key's facebook account for instance. While John Key is the Prime Minister (and subject to the OIA in that capacity), he is also leader of the National Party and a Member of Parliament (and not subject to the OIA in those capacities). A requester seeking to make a request to the Prime Minister via John Key's facebook page would be advised to make it clear that the request was being made to him in that capacity.
<p> A third and related issue that arises with Ministers specifically, is the potential lack of clarity around the date on which an OIA request via facebook is received. Section 11 of the Electronic Transactions Act says an electronic communication is taken to be received:
<p> (a) in the case of an addressee who has designated an information system for the purpose of receiving electronic communications, at the time the electronic communication enters that information system; or
<p> (b) in any other case, at the time the electronic communication comes to the attention of the addressee.
<p> While John Key is the Prime Minister, he has not, as far as we're aware, designated his facebook page for the purpose of receiving electronic communications in that capacity. Therefore it is possible that an OIA request via facebook will only be received when it comes to his attention, and there is no guarantee when that will be. (Note: this would probably not be an issue with a department or organisation subject to the OIA, or a local authority subject to the LGOIMA, that has designated a facebook page for the purpose of receiving electronic communications).
<p> Fourth, it may not be apparent to a Minister receiving a request via facebook that the requester is eligible to make a request under the OIA. Under section 12 of the OIA, requests may only be made by New Zealand citizens, permanent residents, people in New Zealand, and corporate bodies incorporated, or with a place of business, in New Zealand. Agencies and Ministers are entitled to make enquiries that are necessary in order to satisfy themselves that someone is eligible to make a request before the requirements of the Act will kick in. It is therefore possible that the recipient of a request via facebook will require more information to satisfy themselves that the requester is eligible. (Note: this would not be an issue with local authorities subject to the LGOIMA, because it contains no similar restrictions on who may make a request for information under that Act).
<p> Finally, even if a request is made via facebook, it may be difficult for the decision/information to be conveyed in the same way. The requester may also prefer the decision/information to be conveyed privately. Therefore, it may still be advisable for a requester to provide an address for service.
<p> In summary, if you are thinking of making a request to a Minister via facebook, it would be advisable to:
<p> invoke the OIA explicitly;
<p> explain that the request is directed to the account holder in their ministerial capacity;
<p> ask for an acknowledgement that the request has been received;
<p> follow-up (perhaps with an alternative method of communication e.g. phone or email), if no acknowledgement is received;
<p> provide information to assure the recipient of your request that you are eligible to make a request (often a New Zealand postal address will suffice)
<p> provide an address for service so the decision / information is able to be conveyed to you, or in case further information or clarification is required.
<p> It's been around 15 months since we've had a 24/7 lock down on our CBD, it's slowly getting smaller, but it doesn't come with out it's fair share of Lies and Deceit.
<p> The part that has annoyed me the most about the Red Zone, is the lack of Media access (we can mainly blame CERA for this). Surrounding this there is one man and his wife that has been allowed pretty much unlimited access to the Red Zone. Meet Ross Becker (and his wife Moira Fraser) .
<p> Ross is a full time documentary photographer operating both in New Zealand & overseas. Ross is currently recording a photographic documentary essay of the Christchurch earthquakes & its recovery for the National Library of New Zealand. Ross travels extensively with his wife and records their travels with a wide selection of photographs.
<p> Well that's cool and all but where does the truth start and end?
<p> Ross is a 70 year old retired electrical engineer with no formal training or qualifications in photography (nowadays it is a three year degree course), no industrial credentials and no previous experience working on documentary projects, books or exhibitions. Despite this, Becker has managed to obtain significant funding from the National Library to document the biggest disaster in New Zealand's history. (He used to have this on his picasa page, and has since removed it ) to document the most significant natural disaster in New Zealand's modern history for our National Archive. Some say his Wife has some involvement being head of the Parliamentary Library, on the 10th of October when the Auditor-General got involved, Moira annouced she would be leaving the Library.
<p> On Monday I announced that I am moving on from the Parliamentary Library on 2nd December.New adventures beckon.
<p> I did some digging on this and found out some interesting stuff. So let's talk about it.
<p> So how much has Ross received from the National Library? Total payments to Mr. Becker from the period 29 September 2010 to 29th February 2012 total $63,090.19 excluding GST. ( Source : Department of Internal Affairs) that's $883.61 a week! Ross is now being paid at a rate of $500 +GST per day he spends in the Red Zone and additional photographic processing, including the supply of metadata is charged at the rate of $75 +GST per hour. ( Source : Department of Internal Affairs)
<p> This is not the only income that Ross Becker and Moira Fraser are getting for this work. The Department of Internal Affairs have confirmed that Ross and Moira have also "shared" copyright (ownership) of the work with the National Library and they have been selling the images from the project for commercial purposes.
<p> Then Ross and Moira have the audacity to ask the public for donations so he can fly over the city to take photos. That's down right rude, not wanting to spend the money you get from the National Library because you are greedy. Not to mention during this time, Ross and his Wife buggered off overseas a few times weeks on end. You might say "Oh well they deserve a break" Look at Deon Swiggs from Rebuild Christchurch , a man who has had no overseas holiday, a man who works for free, a man who helps his community. What message is this sending to people? That it's okay for the Tax Payer to be ripped off while the people who do awesome work for our city gets shown the back of the hand? This is what upsets me the most. This tourist making money off our city in such a manner.
<p> President of the institute of professional photographers, Mike Langford, told The Press : "The fact the National Library chose to send someone down who is at best an amateur to cover something so important is slightly appalling to all of us. His work is pretty average, to be honest. There are definitely people out there who can do better. In terms of looking at the history of the event, I don't think he's captured any of the extremity of it." Even Roger Sutton the CEO of CERA has something to say about it [sic] "but I think that whole thing about having a record about what was happening in there; I mean, maybe in years, in the future we look back and go gee, I wish we had a better photographic record of what went on in there. If I was doing it all again I would probably have given them freer access"
<p> Ross and Moira's photos are not much more than snapshots, and like most snapshots they will probably be looked at a couple of times and then forgotten. This is one of the most significant in New Zealand's history and yet not much of this is conveyed in Ross and Moira's work. They're really are just tourists enjoying someone else's hell.
<p> Well, seeing as The Tax Payer is paying $60,000 for a collection of photos, you would think that The Crown owns them, Well they 'co-own' them with Becker, and the agreement they have with Becker doesn't prevent him selling photos, making more financial gain on our city. What is the point in The Government getting this man to take photos, allowing to sell them for financial gain.
<p> Please, Ross and Moira. Do what is right and pay the money back or donate it to charity, and get someone to take your place.
<p> UPDATES: 1: Ross and Moira have blocked me from their Facebook page. Can't handle the heat eh? 2: I have been in touch with Christchurch East MP, Lianne Dalziel who will be looking further into this. 3: It now seems rather than making a statement to me about the statements I'v made, Moira seems to be phoning people to try and take down my links. The latest, was a link on the Restore Christchurch Cathedral, Moira made a late night call to one of the admins of the page to have it removed . Nothing less than disgusting from Moira. -- Just in case you are reading this Moira, my offer still stands, you're more than welcome to make a statement to me. You have my email address. 4: I have had the best comment about this posted on The Press website:
<p> People here need to pause and take a little breath.
<p> No one is saying Mr Becker should not be in there doing his photographs!
<p> And talking about what constitutes a professional is just pointless semantics.
<p> The real issue is that Mr Becker was, and is, the only photographer allowed unlimited access to the CBD red zone! This is a first for any disaster anywhere at anytime in the history of the world. How would the photographic records of the worlds disasters look if there had been just one photographer allowed access at ground zero NY, or after Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, or the Boxing day tsunamis etc.
<p> To think that any one single person is capable of doing the work that several experienced photojournalists, including those from The Press, would have achieved is ridiculous. Yes Mr Becker is giving the people of Christchurch both here and away a look at what is happening to buildings in the Red zone they are excluded from, and yes those pictures are needed and as one can read here appreciated by the people.
<p> But that alone is not the purpose of the National Library. Other experienced photojournalists should have also been allowed the same unlimited access as Mr Becker so that a comprehensive story could be recorded for the countries archives.
<p> No one is saying Mr Becker should not be doing his job, people are rightly questioning why with a disaster of such magnitude he is the only one allowed to do so?
<p> DISCLAIMER: I now feel obliged to post this. I should point out the following facts. I do amateur photography, I own a company that dabbles in current affairs. I was also a candidate in the 2011 New Zealand General Election.
<p> I have no issue with Ross Becker, nor do I have an issue with his wife, Moira Fraser. I do how ever have an issue with Mr. Becker's appointment. I also have an issue with Ross Becker's work. It's amateur at it's best. I also have an issue with Moira racing around removing my links that I post up on various Facebook pages.
<p> What's more, I'm told Ross Becker claims I am jealous that he is getting the work, as where I am not. I am in full time study, I have little time to be able to dedicate my self to documenting the Red Zone. My issue lies on the fact Ross Becker is the only person in the red zone, 'documenting'. If there was 5 other people doing it as well. I would have no issue because I know that proper documentation would of been sought by those photographers.
<p> KEY FACTS
<p>  The NL has never sent a photographer to document a disaster before.  They sent a Doctor of history to make an aural history and yet they sent a retired electrical engineer to take photos.  There was no tender or portfolio process.  The Library should have been encouraging CERA to let more photographers in... Instead, by endorsing their photographer they excluded NZ's best.  Most public organisations have some sort of minimum standards of service... I am sure the National Library has some too.
<p> UPDATE: Yeah they are gone now. Hurray. Ever since the 15th of October, there has been increased attention to the Occupy Movement in New Zealand.
<p> I thought I would write a small post on why I am against the movement.
<p> Lack of knowledge I'v asked protestors, what exactly are you protesting only to get replies such as "I'm against the system" or "I'm sick of corporate greed". When I asked Christchurch Protester Rob Read, "Define; 'The System you're against'" To my utter surprise, Rob had no come back, and his reaction was to block and remove me from Facebook. So I took this in my stride as a win. If all you're going to do is bitch and moan about rubbish with out explaining, go away. I have no time for your hippy mind stated bullshit. Further more, I don't see how these protestors are against corporate greed when you're updating Facebook with your Toshiba Laptop or your iPhone, once you've had a moan, you head off to McDonalds or Starbucks . Anyone see anything somewhat contradictory? Oh yes! You're supporting one of those companies that have corporate greed! The exact thing YOU'RE AGAINST . I'm sure I'm not the only one to make the connection.
<p> What's even more funny is the fact people taking their money out of their banks to put in a credit union. Let's just take the time to think that Credit Unions are backed by the big banks so they're able to keep floating. The logic in taking your money out of a bank and putting it into a credit union is zero.
<p> Complaints I have first hand seen some of the nonsense Occupy Christchurch has been up to. Abusing Hagley Community College Students. Yelling abuse at 14 year olds isn't bloody cool. Especially when it was totally unprovoked (I, along with 3 other people were there when it happened, so I know it happened and it's not a bunch of crap).
<p> And today I go on to TVNZ to find out, There's sexual assault allegations flying around the Occupy Camp! Rob Read and his buddy 'T C' (Use your real name if you're going to complain to the media about it, coward) claim that it wasn't someone from the camp, and the person making the allegations is a 15 year old female. Hold the phone, if the protestors don't even know the real reason they are complaining about, how would a 15 year old girl know what occupy is about? What I find also strange, is how Occupy Christchurch is quick to say that it wasn't someone from the camp, and they are now reviewing security. This would give them a nice platform to blame the public because it's public land.
<p> I'v spoken to many people around New Zealand, they share the same level of disgust as I do towards the (disgusting) protestors. The camps are taking up public land, that other people would be using for a leisure purpose, yet reports come out to Occupy Auckland that homeless people have joined the camp site to have somewhere to sleep. People want their space back! They want these bludging, no life, homeless, dirty people (quotes by members of the public) out of Aotea Square, Civic Square, Hagley park and The Octagon.
<p> First of all let me say I am so very happy with the final vote. Even though I did not win, it has given me a good platform to start planning my political future.
<p> I want to take the time to thank my supporters and the people that voted for me. With out you, none of this would be possible. 138 votes may not seem like a lot, but when you take into account my whole advertising platform was based on online with no physical advertising, this has been a great result.
<p> To the people that did vote for me, I will continue to represent you in every way possible. I have no intentions of giving up.
<p> Remember to check back here soon for more updates on what I'm up to. You can follow me on Twitter and Facebook too!
<h> NOTE: Special Votes to be announced on the 10th of December
<p> I am writing to you in regards to your complaint with New Zealand police over the alleged 'teapot tape' saga.
<p> I wish for you to face the media, release the recordings and withdrawal your complaint from Police. Not only are you wasting Police time, you're making a mockery of the government with your childish antics.
<p> If you have nothing to hide, you will make the recordings available to the media and my office by Friday 18 November.
<p> As specified under the Official Information Act, this constitutes an Official Information Act Request.
<p> by Luke Chandler on November 15, 2011 in Newroom with Comments Off Tweet
<p> This year has been full of ups and downs. But as the year draws to a close, you, the people of Christchurch have one final task I ask you to undertake.
<p> That is the General Election on the 26th of November, 10 days away. I ask the people of Christchurch to give their electorate vote to me, Luke Chandler.
<p> This would shift our government away from the power these large political party, and give the people a say in the next Government. I am all about the people of Christchurch and New Zealand. I want us to stand up for what we believe.

