<3225871>
<http://www.avclub.com/articles/kelly-lynch-on-magic-city-john-hughes-and-playing,86567/>
<Rater 1: SP_IT * RC * N * ID: A21YQXPL0SNNR2>
<Rater 2: SP_IT * RC - QU * N * ID: A1XLSHGIE8DRF0>
<Rater 3: SP_IT * RC - QU * N * ID: A57HLQXXSX49M>
<Rater 4: SP_IT * RC - QU * N * ID: AJFM54LLRKT47>

<h> Related articles
<h> Related tv shows
<p> Welcome to Random Roles , wherein we talk to actors about the characters who defined their careers. The catch: They don't know beforehand what roles we'll ask them to talk about.
<p> The actor: Kelly Lynch started in local theater in Minneapolis, then moved to New York and stumbled into a stint as a model for Elite. By the end of the '80s, she'd achieved the near-impossible feat of being both a mainstream bombshell (thanks to memorably sexy turns in Cocktail and Road House ), and an arthouse diva, courtesy of Gus Van Sant 's Drugstore Cowboy . Since then, Lynch has continued to split her time between film and television work, often working with her husband, writer/director Mitch Glazer. She can currently seen in the ensemble of his Starz series, Magic City , the first season of which is now on DVD and Blu-ray.
<p> Magic City (2012-present) -- "Meg Bannock" Kelly Lynch: When Mitch created the show, there were a lot of different ideas about it. One was that it would be a movie, one was that it would be a miniseries, and then that it would be a series. At one point, there was talk that it was going to be a broadcast-network TV show, but then all the powers that be said they couldn't actually tell the story that Mitch wanted to tell. It was more of a premium-cable story. And then [Starz CEO] Chris Albrecht read it when he went over to Starz and went crazy for it. After that, there were two different characters that he was interested for me to play. Of course, I had to sleep with the showrunner to get the part, but... [Laughs.] Anyway, it was either the Miramar Playa house photographer who was also sort of a spy for Ike [Jeffrey Dean Morgan's character] as well a gal-Friday/best-friend kind of thing, or Meg Bannock. And the more we talked about it, Meg just seemed to be the part.
<p> She's this sort of Doris Duke/Grace Kelly throwback, the ultra-WASP who's part of Ike's earlier life, to sort of compare and contrast the Jewish hotel world, which even at that time -- although no one realized it -- was sort of dying as it kept coming up again and again that the WASP persona in America was being viewed as "the real Americans." Meg's a nice person, but she's a person of her world, where Jewish people aren't invited into their country clubs, and the South Beach area isn't integrated. There are colored and white drinking fountains, and this all seems kind of normal in Meg's world. So I think with her affection for Ike and her being accepted into his family more and more, she's seeing her world open up a bit.
<p> It's cool to play a woman from that era who's extremely wealthy. Her parents are gone; she's an heiress like Doris Duke, with something like a billion dollars in today's money. She's got no children and has just said goodbye to husband No. 2, so she can swim the waters of the world like a man. I mean, you want family and you want relationships, but she doesn't need a man to take care of her. She just doesn't need that. Whereas I just did a movie right before I came back to Magic City , a contemporary-set film called A Dark Plan , where I play a woman of today who's a complete throwback, a housewife and a mother, and loses both of those definitions in the course of her story and has an affair with a very young guy and is just completely rebuilding herself. So it's interesting for me to have done those two things back-to-back.
<p> The A.V. Club: Although it hasn't really developed into anything beyond flirtation at this point, the sexual tension between Meg and Ike is formidable. You and Jeffrey Dean Morgan have some serious onscreen chemistry.
<p> KL: You know, it's one of those things... It happened with Matt Dillon , too, on Drugstore Cowboy , but chemistry is one of those things you can't... It just happens. And the camera is aware of it and picks it up, the people in the room are aware of it, the two actors become aware of it. But it was something we weren't prepared for. The first scene we did together, the director said, "Cut," and everybody in the room went, "Wooooooo!" [Laughs.] And we were like, "What?" And we went back and watched some playback, and it was just like, "Oh. Wow ."
<p> AVC: "Oh, that's what."
<p> KL: Yeah. "Okay. Got it." Because, really, we care about each other a lot and we love working together, Jeff and I. It's just one of those things where we really look forward to it. We just wrapped our first episode of the new season and did our read-through yesterday for the second episode, which has a lot of Ike and Meg tension and flirtation, and... I felt like I was in Casablanca . [Laughs.] It was just kind of a perfect tone, this one scene in particular, which Mitch wrote for us, where everybody started clapping after we read the scene. It was like, "Wow, this is gonna be great."
<p> So it's one of those mysteries, and it's a great foil, because Jeff and Olga Kurylenko have what my husband wants to be a beautiful, sexual, close friendship. You know, just a totally wonderful marriage. So there is that, and there's the challenge of doing that, where everything's about conflict, but the conflict is that he's trying to keep that marriage together. But obviously there was a relationship before the marriage when Ike and Meg were young, and there are still pieces of it that are twirling around them.
<p> AVC: Since you've only just started filming, you obviously can't say much about season two, but the press releases that Starz has been sending out are certainly revealing some impressive additions to the cast: James Caan, Sherilyn Fenn -- 
<p> KL: Yeah, it's great! Not only is he our showrunner, creator, and writer, but Mitch was also very involved in the design of the look of the show, because he grew up in Miami in that era. His father was the electrical engineer in all those great hotels, and he grew up as a cabana boy in the summers, sitting at the lunch counter at Wolfie's, with Meyer Lansky in a nearby booth telling him to shut the hell up. [Laughs.] So, yeah, the casting, the music... There's some music this year that's just insane, and all the casting is done by Mitch. He just thinks of people when he writes, and he's always hoping that's the person he'll be able to cast, and that's just happened to work. People read their bits and go, "Yeah, I've got to do this."
<p> When he's writing, it's almost like he's Sybil. I hear him once in awhile, and he'll be reading pieces out loud in a different cadence for different characters. Mitch doesn't have the performing gene, but he can do all sorts of voices. He's like Rich Little. [Laughs.] He's not so good with the females, but... Anyway, yeah, he used Jimmy Caan's voice for this one character, and then we got Jimmy in to do it. He's so funny, this character, but he's so scary. Very scary. And Sherilyn, we all worked together on Three Of Hearts so many years ago. She's already filmed a real big scene in this first episode, and she was absolutely fantastic. Just amazing. She always had that thing like she was from another time, anyway. It's been a long time since she's had something like this where she's had a real fun part to show off, and she just killed it.
<p> Of course, we have other good stuff coming up, too. A bigger Cuban storyline, and other things are happening in the continuing saga of Ike trying to keep his dream alive down there. It's also the story of Miami, though, with the cyclical thing of how different people may have the power, but the power always wants to corrupt this beautiful place and turn it into casinos. So far that hasn't happened yet, but when Cuba fell, all of that money crossed the ocean and tried to turn Miami into what Havana was for a while.
<p> AVC: Magic City obviously isn't the first time that you and Mitch have worked together, but how is it to work as an actress with your husband as the director?
<p> KL: It's very weird. We did it the first time on Three Of Hearts , where our director [Yurek Bogajevicz] had, like, a nervous breakdown and didn't show up for work, and Mitch... He was doing rewrites for us, just to help with that, because it was just a little independent movie. And the producers were like, "So, uh, Mitch is the kind of writer who hears it, sees it, and smells it. Do you think he could direct?" And I said, "Yeah, I always thought he could." So we got him to come on the set, and he basically filmed a third of the movie uncredited, and those are everybody's favorite scenes, and he was wonderful. But on the first day we drove to work together, all of a sudden when we were about halfway there, I looked at him and I said, "What if we just start arguing? What if... Oh, my God, this could be horrible! " [Laughs.] And I started freaking out. And he was, like, "Oh God, I didn't even think about that."
<p> But then this weird thing happened when we got on the set: He knew exactly what he wanted to do, he had really thought about it and was very prepared, and he became "Mitch Glazer." Both names. In quotes. [Laughs.] "Mitch Glazer" is my boss. I also love to be directed and relinquish control. Some actors have a hard time doing that, and it shows in their work, I think. You have to trust in the people around you, not direct yourself, and, most of all, do your job. You have to trust that someone has an idea of how they're going to cut it and what the story is and what the scene is about, all those things, so you can just be in the moment, living and breathing, and not be outside of yourself, watching yourself.
<p> We have a poster of John Cassavetes on the wall of a room in our house, because we were always inspired by him. Mitch and I are huge Gena Rowlands and John Cassavetes fans -- we got to know Gena very well -- and the way they worked together, the family feeling on the set of Cassavetes' films is exactly what Mitch tries to do. Three hundred-some people work for him on Magic City , but he knows everybody's name. So there's very much a family feeling. And TV is fast, and there can be a lot of tension. There are movies where you only do a page or three a day. We're doing nine or 10 pages a day. So because of the fact that Mitch is the person that he is, we have fun. People look forward to going to work. Everybody on the crew reads the script, which is kind of unheard of, but often you have the boom guy who'll be thinking about the script over lunch, and... Everyone's very engaged in the storytelling. When the scripts come out, there's a buzz from the crew, and I've never been around that, where 100 percent of the people are just so connected to what they're doing. And not just connected to the job, but artistically connected.
<p> AVC: Talk about a trial by fire for your husband: His first time behind the camera, and he's directing his wife in romantic scenes with Sherilyn Fenn.
<p> KL: Absolutely, yeah. I was on notice. [Laughs.] But, like I said, that's when I started referring to him as "Mitch Glazer," which made the whole crew laugh. I still do it now. Even though they just call him "Mitch," I just feel more comfortable calling him "Mitch Glazer" because it draws a line when we're working together. It's the same thing with the read-throughs. They keep seating me next to him in our conference room, and I'm always like, "Would you get me away from him?"
<p> Three Of Hearts (1993) -- "Connie Czapski" KL: I was really, really proud of that part, and, quite honestly, I felt... I've played a few lesbian characters in my career, and I'm always happy to do so. It's always a challenge, and I always learn something. But Connie I liked because at that point... It's hard to even believe, because we have so many gay characters integrated into TV shows -- Modern Family , The New Normal , whatever -- but back then the main gay characters were in films like Philadelphia . Or Basic Instinct , which is a movie I turned down right around that same time. I turned down millions of dollars to do Basic Instinct and instead did this little movie for basically nothing, because I thought, "We can't have gay and lesbian characters on prime-time television or in films where they're just dying of AIDS or killing people. It's just too hideous." And the character in Basic Instinct ... I didn't like her, for one thing, but then the whole crossing and uncrossing my legs? I have a kid. I was like, "I don't think so." But I would've done something like Body Heat . I just thought Basic Instinct was really cheesy.
<p> And then Three Of Hearts fell in my lap, and my agent's like, "Well, this is a cute little movie." And I said, "You know what? I love the fact that she's a lesbian, she's got a girlfriend, and the girlfriend's got issues whether she's gay or straight." And Connie's just trying to make her way through the world like a regular person. We see her in her bar with friends, we see her at work as a nurse, we see her apartment and her regular life. I'm not sure, but I think I was the first actor who got a chance to play a lesbian in a film who's just a person . And there were some people who were thinking Billy Baldwin -- who played my best friend -- and I should've gotten together, because we had such great chemistry. But in a way, the movie was almost like a mini- Casablanca , where the girl, the Ingrid Berman character, comes into the lives of these men, but in the end she's gone, and it's the friendship that remains as she goes off in her plane... or, as in our movie, her cab. But the friendship lasts through everything. Hopefully, anyway. So I was really proud of it. But I, uh, got a lot of heat from the gay community, with the girls going, "We would've liked to have seen more sex scenes with you and Sherilyn!"
<p> AVC: In fairness, there was probably a similar outcry from some guys in the straight community.
<p> KL: [Laughs.] I know, I know. There were more than a few guys in the audience, too. But I was, like, "Oh, you idiots, don't you get it?" It was more covert. It was about getting in there and kind of making Middle America look at people who are just like them, but they have different partners. So here I thought, "I'm doing this important thing!" But in this day and age, people sometimes just want entertainment. They don't necessarily want to be shown anything that they have to think about or learn from. But hopefully we did something with Three Of Hearts , because I always thought it was a really sweet movie. And it's always weird who remembers it. For instance, Anna Wintour from Vogue came up to me and said, "I loved that movie Three Of Hearts . It was so sweet and so funny. I just loved it. I loved the whole thing: the way it looked, the acting, story." I was like, "Oh, cool !"
<p> The Equalizer (1986) -- "Bartender" KL: You know, someone asked me the first time I was on film, and I said, "I can't remember!" I would've thought it was The Hitchhiker . But now that you've mentioned it, I do remember that I was on The Equalizer , and, yes, it was my first job. But in my head, I don't think I was even counting it as a real job, because I had, like, a couple of lines and I was completely terrified. I started in theater, so working in front of a camera was something I had no idea about. The one thing I remember is that the sound department kept having to come over and tell me to stop projecting. [Laughs.] Because I was just enunciating and projecting as if I was talking to the balcony. And they're like, "You know, you've got a little microphone right here, so we can hear everything." At which point I got completely paranoid, going, "Oh, my God, they can hear everything . They can probably hear my internal organs working!" It was like I was completely out of body. It was hilarious. But I had totally forgotten about it until you brought it up.
<p> Portfolio (1983) -- "Elite Model" AVC: You were just saying that The Equalizer was the first time you were on film, but didn't you appear in the movie Portfolio a few years before that?
<p> KL: Yeah, but that was kind of, like, they rounded up all of these Elite models and I don't think I ever saw the finished product, but when I was on set, I thought, "This is really stupid." [Laughs.] It was kind of a fake look at what being a model is like. It was, like, people practically singing and dancing as they're doing things behind the scenes at a fashion show. I remember sitting there smoking cigarettes with another girl who I hadn't met but who worked for the agency, and we were looking at each other and rolling our eyes, just going, "Oh, my God ..." I was always trying to put myself in the very back of any scene I was in so that I'd never be recognized. It was almost like what reality TV is now: a scripted fake-but-real look at something that's just so completely not real.
<p> AVC: So which came first for you: the modeling or the theater?
<p> KL: The theater came first. When I was a kid, my sister was a piano player, and I was an athlete and an actor, but it was a hobby. My family really never thought I would end up continuing in acting. And I didn't, either! I didn't even get that it was a job. I just loved it. But I did dinner theater as a child, I worked at the Guthrie Theater [in Minneapolis] and did a few things, but I was on my way to a career in hotel and restaurant management, which is what my family's business is. My dad is actually a little bit like Ike Evans. Actually, his whole life is, because my mother was an ex-showgirl. [Laughs.] So that's one of the things that inspired Mitch with those characters. There are these glamorous pictures of my parents, and they look like Ike and Vera!
<p> So, anyway, I went out to register for school, and I had just a weird idea about going to New York and seeing a friend of mine that I had been dating in Minneapolis. And I got up to Manhattan, and I just never left. I got into Sande Shurin's acting classes, which was amazing, but I was starving -- literally -- and staying in a flophouse on 42nd and 2nd for $15 a night because I lied and told them I was a model. And, like, a month later, I was a model. John Casablancas from Elite saw me in an elevator and gave me his card. I thought he was some kind of porn director. [Laughs.] I couldn't understand what he was saying to me. He was all excited and pitching me on the idea of modeling, but somehow I thought it was some porn thing, so I just kind of threw the card in my bag and was like, "Get away from me!" But later I was showing the card to friends and was laughing about it, and they went, "No, no, that's, like, the cool, big modeling agency." And I'm like, "Yeah, but I'm not a model. I've never taken those classes." I didn't get that you could just be photographed. I thought you had to, like, go to college to be a model. [Laughs.] Some sort of special modeling college.
<p> So I went into Elite and met with them, and I started working and started making a living at it, supporting myself as I was studying with somebody who was absolutely fantastic, and I started working as an actress. The hardest part for me was the work you start getting. It's, like, a line in a movie or TV show, like in The Equalizer . I just kept wanting to stop working and keep studying, stay in class and do these great scenes and characters. And it was Sande who said to me, "You have got to get out there and stay out there. You're going to be riding in a limousine quicker than you know, but you have to start somewhere. Each role builds on another role, and if you look at these things you're doing as characters that you're meant to play, then you'll learn something from each one."
<p> It's very humbling when you start to work. You feel like you're only showing 10 percent of what you are, but that's where you start. I mean, for me it was a lot of wearing bikinis for a few years. But now I'm really glad I did it. At the time I was totally humiliated. Now, I'm like, "Yeah, that's what I looked like." [Laughs.] "That girl in Cocktail ? That was me."
<p> AVC: Lea Thompson made a similar comment about a topless scene she did for The Wild Life .
<p> KL: Yeah, now you look back at it and you're like, "It's all good." Back then all they did was keep asking me to take something off. Now I'm just waiting for them to start telling me to put something back on. [Laughs.]
<p> Virtuosity (1995) -- "Madison Carter" KL: That was such an interesting experience. I learned so much from that movie. First of all, the Denzel Washington part was a role that written for Mel Gibson, and it was a romantic role. He played a character who was in prison for many years, and he gets out and hooks up with this computer forensic specialist who finds bad guys on the Internet, and they pursue this guy who's a virtual-reality kind of creation. And Denzel decided... Well, we all had to audition with him, which they rarely do anymore. They just usually put the two biggest actors available for a part in the movie together, whether or not they really have any chemistry, and if you find out on day one that they don't, then it's like, "Whoops!" But for Denzel and I, it was very charged. It was really great. We really connected. It was really sexual, funny, we connected intellectually... Everything was working. They were thrilled. And it was a wonderful script. But when we showed up for rehearsal, Denzel... [Hesitates.]
<p> We had kind of an inexperienced director [Brett Leonard], who I think had only done a few movies before that and really didn't have much experience with big movie stars. And when actors feel like there's not a real captain of a ship, they can feel like, "I have to take this project under my wing, and I have to fix it, because no one is minding the store." That's the kind of feeling Denzel had, I think, so he took the script and rewrote it and decided that my character wasn't really so much of an expert but worked at a company and had a child, who would have a bomb strapped to her back. So I would be some sort of a hostage, a child-in-jeopardy thing -- which I absolutely hate -- and there would not be a romantic relationship between these people. Even though this man had been in prison for many, many years, he didn't feel any connection to women when he got out... or at least not any woman that we see him with. And then he took half of my part and incorporated it into his dialogue. That was kind of the beginning of the end. I mean, the whole script just unraveled.
<p> I was very nice, though. I said, "Denzel, what is it? Why don't you believe that the man you're playing couldn't be attracted to me?" I mean, it wasn't a cheesy love story. It was actually really well-written and moving. And he said, "You know what, Kelly? I hate to say it, but, you know, white men bring women to movies, and they don't want to watch a black man with their woman." I was like, "What? No . Really?" He said, "No, I'm sorry, but that's truly what it is. That's what the audience is." I'm like, "But how about The Bodyguard ? That was a huge hit movie." "Well, that's different. That's a white man. It's different." I said, "So that's your main motivating factor on this?" He said, "Yes." So the love story wasn't a love story anymore. So I said, "Okay." Years later on The Larry Elder Show , they were talking about it because some crewmember called up, and he didn't identify himself but he knew the whole thing. They talked about it, and he said, "Oh, I wish we could get a phone call from Kelly Lynch!" I was in my car, but I was like, "They absolutely have it right, but I'm just not going to talk about it right now." But it made me very sad. Not only as an actress, because it totally turned the movie into a piece of crap, but... I get that Denzel got a little bit afraid of everything, and I'm sure he believed what he was saying, although I think he's wrong. I think that people go to movies because they think they're good movies, or they don't go to them because they think they're bad. I just don't come from that place. And if that's what people think, then I don't want to make movies for them. So it was a really weird experience. But I learned a lot.
<p> I watched Russell Crowe, who's a brilliant actor as well, and he made something out of that movie, which was a complete mess. He took it and he found his place, because he wasn't involved in any of that weird black/white dynamic. There were all these things that I didn't understand were happening or were allowed to happen, and not everybody was happy with those choices that Denzel had made, but no one stopped him. But Russell could come and hang out in my trailer, and we'd talk a little bit, and then he just said, "You know, I'm just doing what I'm doing." He was really funny, because he decided to terrorize me as Sid 6.7 [Crowe's villain android character] and started decorating my trailer every day. I'd come to work, and my trailer would have more decorations until finally I had flower boxes and trees, and the interior was like a bodega, with all these sort of Our Lady Of Guadalupe candles and banners and shrines. He went mental. It was really funny. And, uh, then it did get kind of scary. [Laughs.] You know, it's always interesting, I guess is my point, no matter what it is. You always want the movies to turn out to be just the greatest thing ever, but what the audience doesn't realize is that we're still having a life experience, the crew and cast. And sometimes that can be highly entertaining or really bizarre. But it's always interesting.
<p> Charlie's Angels (2000) -- "Vivian Wood" KL: That was really fun. My husband is an uncredited writer of that Charlie's Angels movie. He was brought on and calls himself Writer No. 21. I think that's the number he was. I've never seen so much money spent on the writing of an action movie about three girls, but... They wanted Bill Murray to come in, and Bill said, "Look, I'll do it, but this script isn't really very funny. I like working with Mitch Glazer. If Mitch can do it, then I'll come on." And I was kind of the same way. I was kind of interested, because they were talking to me about the role of Vivian, but once Mitch was there, Bill and I both knew we'd be protected and that we'd have something fun to do. And Sam Rockwell was really thrilled, too, since Mitch gave him some moves. [Laughs.] Sam was hilarious.
<p> The hardest thing was... Cameron [Diaz] and I are kind of both tomboys, so we were determined to do all our stunts except for that fall from the bell tower, that big fight scene. They wouldn't let us fly down the cable. But we did everything else. And I smartly had a rubber suit that I wore, underneath which were bruises the size of baseballs. I mean, we had the team from The Matrix working with us on martial arts, and she had, I don't know, eight months to prepare. I had two weeks. So it was, like, eight hours a day of really intense training to do stuff that I didn't think I could possibly do. Cameron and I are the same height and weight and... We're really a good pair, except for the fact that I'm 12 years older than her. So I kept saying things like, "I'm a mother, don't kill me!" [Laughs.] Meanwhile, she's a force of nature. But we had a really good time. She knows these two amazing Chinese women doctors, and every night we had acupuncture, because we were really doing full-contact. We would look at the monitor, and we would go, "It's not fast enough." You can't really fake this stuff, so we were really kind of going at it. But she was just a complete doll to work with, and we became great friends. We had the best time.
<p> Of course, the scene with Bill and I, where she comes over and he's lighting a fire... [Laughs.] It was so funny. There were so many takes that didn't work because somebody from the crew would start laughing. When Bill puts his head in the ice bucket because it kind of ignites his face  when he's lighting the fire... just things like that. It was one of the only times that I've ever actually been nervous. And Bill's a friend of mine, but all of a sudden that morning, I looked at him and said, "Bill, I'm so nervous." He said, "Aw, c'mon, we're friends, this should be fun." I said, "Yeah, but you're Bill Murray!" It's like "Mitch Glazer." They become different people. When it's outside of work and I'm hanging out with them, he's my buddy, but all of a sudden, I'm working with someone who I consider to be our generation's Peter Sellers. He's a great, great actor, and he's a very bright man and funny as well. I mean, you've got to have your A-game. In the end, we just had a blast. It was just so much fun. But I think the second Charlie's Angels , without Mitch and Bill... It's a lot of set scenes, but no heart and not a lot of humor. The girls were adorable, just like they were in the first one, but... Studios often think, "Just grab any bunch of writers, throw in all these elements, and it'll work." And it really doesn't. It really has to be someone who takes a look at the whole thing and sews it all together and gives each one a little character, an arc, and a little something extra... like giving Sam Rockwell some dancing. That was, ladies and gentlemen, "Mitch Glazer." [Laughs.]
<p> Curly Sue (1991) -- "Grey Ellison" KL: That was another movie that started out as one movie and ended up being another movie entirely. But a great experience. I had a little girl at the time, one who's now a woman in her mid-20s, but she'd never seen my work at the time, so I thought, "Well, I'll go to Chicago." It was like a throwback to one of those Depression-era movies that you'd seen Jean Harlow in: A rich lady ends up taking in this little orphan. I thought it was very sweet, and I thought, "Well, she can finally see what I do for a living." As opposed to showing her, say, Drugstore Cowboy , which, uh, wouldn't really be appropriate. [Laughs.]
<p> It was originally going to be me, Alec Baldwin, and Kevin Spacey, which would've been a whole different situation. John Hughes had just come off of Home Alone , he was the biggest director on the planet, and it was really exciting to be with him on what was the last movie he ever directed. I loved working with him, and it was interesting to see just how he worked and how he got performances. He really was very clear. It was almost like puppetry, where he had an idea about how you looked, your expressions, and your intonations. It was very precise. But somehow he made it feel organic, like it came from me as well. But he was very specific with what he wanted and very kind about how he got it. I liked working with him a lot. He and Jimmy [Belushi] had a hard time, however.
<p> Alec Baldwin had to walk because he was doing Streetcar [ Named Desire ] with Jessica Lange, and the rehearsals on that had kind of accelerated because they'd decided that they were going to do them early. So he had to drop out, and I was heartbroken. And then Kevin Spacey got a different play, so his part was recast as well. Those were two guys I knew really well, but I'd never met Jimmy before, and then he and John didn't get along very well, so I kind of felt like a mom dealing with two 12-year-old boys. "Okay, now you stop it, you go over there and stay there until you can behave." [Laughs.] It really was almost like that for me. Once, Jimmy had a monologue, and John just about lost it trying to get it filmed. One time production was stopped, and someone said it was because Jimmy needed softer toilet paper or hand towels or something ridiculous like that, and I was, like, "Well, that can't be true." I don't really know what was going on between the two of them, but they, uh, definitely weren't the best of friends. What I thought would be this cute, sweet little movie experience ended up going on for something like five months, and so much money was spent. It was insane.
<p> I do remember that I met the heads of every studio, because they all came to sort of pay homage to Hughes, because at the time he'd just had this huge, huge hit. But there was a lot of diabolical energy coming out of that production between those two guys. At one point, Mitch, who would come in to visit me, was the stand-in for the little girl -- Alisan Porter -- because Jimmy was not going to do off-camera work anymore because he was so angry at John. But even with all of that going on, it still remains one of those movies where people say, "Aw, I loved that movie when I was a kid. It was so sweet!"
<p> Road House (1989) -- "Doc" KL: Well, there you go. I mean, what can you say? I got a call from my agent, and I had just done Drugstore Cowboy , which was a little different, but he said, "There's this other movie." I was actually one of the last contract players, I guess, but I had a two-picture deal with United Artists, which I don't remember signing it, but apparently I had it, and that's how Road House first came up. The actress who'd been cast first to play against Patrick Swayze was Annette Bening, but she was fired. Patrick just didn't feel any chemistry with her or something. I don't know what it was. But I didn't know who she was, I didn't know what this movie was, all I knew was who Patrick Swayze was, and that's because he'd just done Dirty Dancing , which was a big movie. And I thought, "Man, he's a really interesting guy," so I took the script, but then I read it and I was like, "Okay, I don't understand what this is. There's a big-wheel truck, there's a bad guy, there's a doctor in a mini-dress, and there are bouncers." It was just, like, a goulash. [Laughs.] So many elements were thrown into this movie that it just didn't make any sense to me.
<p> But I took a meeting with the producer, the famous Joel Silver, who did not disappoint as far as offering a larger-than-life personality. He was hilariously funny and charming and a maniac. We sat in his office, and he basically talked me into doing it. He said, "Look, first of all, I don't make art, I buy it," which is his famous quote, but here I am, this young actress trying to become an artist, just coming off Drugstore Cowboy , listening to him and just going, "Uh-huh." But he said, "I promise you that this will be the best drive-in movie ever made. It will be a movie that people will love. It will be fun, we'll have a great time making it, and just trust me." And then he just looked at me and said, "And by the way, you don't have a choice, you know. You're under contract. You can say 'no' and we can get really difficult, but we want you and you should do this. It could be great for you." So basically he said, "You have to do this." [Laughs.] So I said, "Okay."
<p> So I showed up for work, and I have to say that, between John Doe , Jeff Healey, and all these musicians, plus working with Sam Elliott and Patrick, it was like a barbeque on set every day. Just a really good time. All that "pain don't hurt" and "I used to fuck guys like you in prison," all those lines, we would be roaring at the time. I mean, it was just hilarious, you know? But no one winked at it. Everyone played it straight. I wore my tablecloth miniskirt dress, and we just had the best time. And I think it shows. And it lives on. I think it's playing on some network somewhere in the universe every single day, probably even as we speak. It's pretty girls, guys fighting, good guys and bad guys... and mullets! We all had a mullet, for God's sake! [Laughs.] I remember saying, "How are you getting my hair to do that?" Because my hair's really straight. But they put stuff in it and made it happen. It was amazing.
<p> So, yeah, it lives on. In fact, my daughter was at the Fairfax Theater, where they had a Road House trivia night, and she was, like, "You've got to go! A bunch of us are going!" They said it was like Rocky Horror , where they do all the lines and everything. So she's like, "You've got to come! You've got that dress. I bet it still fits you. Come on, you've got to put that dress on!" I was like, "Oh, I wish I could, but I just can't. You guys go have a good time with it, but..." [Laughs.] It's so great that it's such a fun thing for everybody. It is what it is, but people love it for that.
<p> AVC: It seems like your sex scene in the film must be one of the most uncomfortable in cinematic history, being up against a rock wall and all.
<p> KL: Oh, I know, but I was padded. [Laughs.] No one knows, so it looks more painful that it was. They really liked everything about the way that scene looked, with the blonde hair against the rocks behind me, but I was like, "Isn't this kind of... mean?" So they put a thin padding under my dress, so you can't see it. But he's still slamming me against the rocks, so I had to be careful not to hit my head. Thank God Patrick was so strong. He could've carried me around that room forever.
<p> By the way, speaking of Bill Murray, every time Road House is on and he or one of his idiot brothers are watching TV -- and they're always watching TV -- one of them calls my husband and says [In a reasonable approximation of Carl Spackler], "Kelly's having sex with Patrick Swayze right now. They're doing it. He's throwing her against the rocks." [Away from the receiver.] What? Oh, my God . Mitch was just walking out the door to the set, and he said that Bill once called him from Russia .

