The Dumb Skeleton	Q: Why didn’t the skeleton want to go to school?	A: His heart wasn’t in it.
Dancing Monsters	Q: What kind of monster loves to disco?	A: The boogieman.
Obese Pumpkin	Q: What do you call a fat pumpkin?	A: A plumpkin.
Dieting Scarecrow	Q: Why didn’t the scarecrow eat dinner?	A: He was already stuffed.
Honest Ghosts	Q: Why are ghosts so bad at lying?	A: Because you can see right through them!
Superstitious Rodent	Q: When is it bad luck to be followed by a black cat?	A: When you’re a mouse.
Witch’s Spell	Q: How do you make a witch itch?	A: Take away the W.
Vampire Love	Q: What’s it like to be kissed by a vampire?	A: It’s a pain in the neck.
A Demon’s BFF	Q: Why do demons and ghouls hang out together?	A: Because demons are a ghouls best friend!
Disappointed Ghost	Q: Why can’t the boy ghost have babies?	A: Because he has a Hallo-weenie.
Dracula’s Renovations	Q: What’s it called when a vampire has trouble with his house?	A: A grave problem.
Sated Vampire	Q: How can you tell when a vampire has been in a bakery?	A: All the jelly has been sucked out of the jelly doughnuts.
The Weather Outside is Frightful	Q: What do you get when you cross a vampire and a snowman?	A: Frostbite
Congested Ghost	Q: What is in a ghost’s nose?	A: Boo-gers
Busy Mummy	Q: Why don’t mummies take time off?	A: They’re afraid to unwind.
Gargling Vampire	Q: Why did the vampire need mouthwash?	A: Because he had bat breath.
The Witch’s Garage	Q: What do you call a witch’s garage?	A: A broom closet.
The Least Popular Product In the World	Q: The maker of this product does not want it, the buyer does not use it, and the user does not see it. What is it?	A: A coffin.
Ghost on R&amp;R	Q: Where does a ghost go on vacation?	A: Mali-boo.
Curvy Spirit	Q: Why do girl ghosts go on diets?	A: So they can keep their ghoulish figures.
Workaholic Horseman	Q: Why did the headless horseman go into business?	A: He wanted to get ahead in life.
Intellectual Vampire	Q: Why did the Vampire read the New York Times?	A: He heard it had great circulation.
Drunk Ghost	Q: Why did the ghost go into the bar?	A: For the Boos.
Ahoy, Dracula!	Q: How do vampires get around on Halloween?	A: On blood vessels
Skinny Skeletons	Q: Know why skeletons are so calm?	A: Because nothing gets under their skin.
